r
AGENDA
MEETING OF CMA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Monday and Tuesday, September 9-10, 1985
The Rltz Carlton (Ballroom IV Room)
Laguna California
TAB
Call to Order and Approval of Minutes of
Annual Report of the Environmental Manage­
Chevron Chemical Company;
Environmental Management Committee
Analysis of Dlngell Survey on Air Emissions
Annual Report of the State Affairs Commit­
Chairman, State Affairs Conalttee
Special Report on the Status and Programs
of the State Chemical Industry
Pont de Nemours & Company; Chairman, CMA
Ad Hoc Chemical Industry Council Work Group
Annual Report of the Government Relations
Haas Company; CMA Government
Relations Committee
10:10-10:30
Carbide Corporation; Chairman, CMA
Tax Policy Committee

11:10-11:30
Superfund Reauthorization:
a. Overview and Report on Association
Eastman Kodak Company,* CMA
Superfund Task Group
c. Communications Support Jon C. Holtzman
b. Association Program and Issue Report

Viewing of New
Jon C. Holtzman
12:00 Noon
Adjournment
1
2
3
4
038290

Chairman Clark
Chairman Sella
Annual Report of the Special Programs
Policy Committee Chairman Corless
Annual Report of the International Affairs
Group Thomas W. Mooney, The Procter
& Gamble Company; Vice Chairman, Inter­
national Affairs Group
International Trade Policy Issues:
deration of Executive Committee Recom­
Haas Company; CMA International
Trade Committee
a. U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement
b. Multilateral Trade Negotiations on
Chemical Tariff Cutting
10:20-10:35
Protection of Groundwater Quality Policy:
Consideration of Executive Committee
Chevron Chemical Company;
Environmental Management Committee

Gary S. Furman, American Cyanamid
Company; Energy Committee
Annual Report of the Engineering Advisory
Company; Engineering
Advisory Cosnlttee
11:25-11:50
Roland

New Business
12:00 Noon
Adjournment
038291

2291
MINUTES of the three hundred fourth meeting of the Board of Directors of the
Chemical Manufacturers Association, Inc., held at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel (Ball­
room IV), Laguna California, on Monday at 8:00 a.m. and Tuesday at
9:00 a.m., September 9 and 10, 1985. There were present:
Directors:
George J. Sella, Jr. - Chairman
Harold A. Sorgenti - Vice
Robert A. Roland - President
Arthur E. Biggs
Hans H. Kopper
Robert D. Cadleux
Sidney M. Leahy
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Carl W. Lorentzen
Paul V. Chellgren
Robert H. Malott
H. Eugene McBrayer
Harry Corless
Keith R. McKennon
Ralph S. Cunningham
Robert L. Mitchell
Keith H. Edmondson (l)
L. John Polite
Seymour S. Preston, III
F. Jack Fitzgerald
Thomas E. Reilly, Jr.
Robert C. Forney
M. Whitson Sadler
Charles E. Stewart
S. Jay Stewart
John U. Johnstone, Jr.
Robert D. Kennedy
Konrad M. Weis
Secretary:
Treasurer:
General Counsel:
Charles W. Van Vlack
Gary C. Herman
David Zoll
By Invitation:
Stuart T. Allen, SOCMA, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company
William M. Bellamy, Jr., Carbide Corporation
Frank W. Berryman, Chevron Chemical Company
Geraldine V. Cox, CMA
Kenneth E. Davis, Rohm and Haas Company (1)
Wells Denyes, Eastman Kodak Company
Garth F. Fort, Monsanto Company
Gary S. Furman, American Cyanamld Company
Edward D. Griffith, ARCO Chemical Company
Jon C. Holtzman,
E. Hamilton Hurst, Nalco Chemical Company
Thomas W. Mooney, The Procter & Gamble Company (2)
Ray E. Olsen, Exxon Chemical Company
Allan J. Spilner, Rohm and Haas Company
William M. Stover,
Juliane H. Van Egmond, American Cyanamld Company
James P. Watkins, American Cyanamld Company
(1) Monday only
(2) Tuesday only
038292

Monday> September 9, 1985
MINUTES LAST MEETINGS
Chairman Sella called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m. The minutes of
the June 5 and 6, 1985 Board meetings vere approved as distributed.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
A summary of the committee's annual report Is attached as Exhibit A.
DINGELL ON AIR EMISSIONS
Mr. Berryman reviewed the results of the survey on air emissions and
emergency response capabilities and practices. Key findings of the survey included:
A significant amount of safety equipment and procedures are in place.
The industry has a very active inspection and safety review program.
Air emission measuring apparatus and techniques are In place or
applied near the .process unit rather than at the fenceline or in the
community.
There Is substantial operator input (human factor) in most of these
monitoring and safety systems.
The report will be delivered to Congressman Dlngell later in September
following completion and final review of the contractors' analysis of the data.
There was considerable discussion concerning the ultimate public release of the
report and the Individual company's ability to be able to effectively respond to
the issues that might be raised.
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
The comnlttee's annual report, supplemented with Fort's report.
Is attached as Exhibit B.
CHEMICAL ASSOCIATIONS
Mr. Wood presented the report C) of an ad hoc group which had
studied the status and programs of the various state chemical Industry ass clations. Mr. Wood highlighted the following findings and recommendations:
The 18 state groups represent a significant resource to the industry.
has done a good job In the past 4-5 years In nurturing and
supporting these groups.
038293

needs Co continue co evaluate and find appropriate ways to
utilize the resource chat these groups represent, while recognizing
chat some states will always be able to do more chan others.
Member company senior executives need to provide strong, top down
personal and corporate support for these groups.
Some additional expenditure of resources in the form of seed
money would be desirable.
There was considerable discussion of the relative strengths of the state
organizations, the need for additional state groups, and the role of the Board and
the individual Directors in moving these programs forward and in resolving any
problems or shortfalls in company involvement. The view was expressed that the
Board and the Individual Directors feel the need to have continuing input, as
appropriate, on those areas where their action, either individually or collec­
tively, is warranted. Mr. Roland indicated that there would be appropriate
action based on the data in the report and the Board's request.
RELATIONS COMMITTEE
A summary of the committee's annual report is attached as Exhibit D.
TAX REFORM LEGISLATION
Mr. Bellamy's report is attached as Exhibit E.
activities including:
He highlighted several
The preparation of two tax studies on effective tax rates (Price
Waterhouse) and on the Impact of the Administration's
Completion of a series of issue papers.
A program of contacts Ways and Means Committee members.
Following presentation, there was discussion of how active the
Association should be on the tax issue and where it should be ranked in the
overall list of Association priorities. Further discussion was deferred to the
Executive Committee meeting that afternoon.
REAUTHORIZATION
a. Association Activities.
Mr. Stover presented an overview of
Association activities with respect to Superfund reauthorlzation.
b. Legislative Status.
Mr. Denyes' report is attached as Exhibit F.
He highlighted pending action on the Senate floor on S. 51 and in the House Ways
and Means, and Public Works and Transportation Committees. Following presenta­
tion, there was discussion of the senior executive assignments to visit key Members
038294

of Congress and che points which would be made during those visits. Further
discussion of Association strategies was deferred to the Executive Committee
meeting.
REPORT THE
Hr. Roland's report is attached as Exhibit G. Dr. Cox presented a
status report on CHEMNET's which has 41 companies signed on and is
scheduled to begin operations in October. Hr. Zoll reported on the August CHA
conference on insurance and its findings. He discussed possible avenues of
Involvement other than the formation of a captive Insurance company and requested
input from the Board on what direction the CHA effort should take. Hr. Stover
reported on the pending Conference Committee action regarding reauthorizatlon of
the Clean Water Act. Hr. Holtzman described the upcoming open meeting of the
Communications Comtlttee on CAER. Hr. Roland reported on plans and programs for
the October Chemical Industry Conference.
The Board adjourned until 9:00 a.m.
Tuesday, September 10.
Tuesday, September 10, 1985
"CLEANING FILH
Prior to the beginning of the meeting, the recent CHA film
entitled "Cleaning Up" was presented for those Directors who had expressed inter­
est.
REPORT THE EXECUTIVE
Chairman Clark reported on the items discussed and actions taken by the
Executive Committee the preceding day. Clark indicated that che Execu­
tive Committee's rccommendstlons on those subjects coming before the Board would
be reported following presentation of each agenda item, but prior to the request
for final action. He reported that the Executive Committee took the following
actions:
Approved four standing committee and LAG appointments.
Recommended for Board action the Nominating Committee's report.
Approved revisions to the Special Programs Policy Comittee Charter,
Principles and Operating Guidelines.
Recommended for Board action the proposed position on a possible
U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement.
Deferred the proposed position on multilateral trade negotiations
on chemical tariff cutting, pending further review by the
International Trade Committee.
038295

Recommended for Board action the proposed position on the protection
of groundwater quality.
Requested the Environmental Management Committee revise its
proposal on an Association policy and program for air toxics.
Discussed Superfund reauthorization strategies and reiterated the
Importance of the senior executive congressional visits.
Discussed the impact of recent chemical incidents on the
Association's activities, including a request to fund the CAER and
CRC programs. The funding request was referred to the Finance
Committee. Other areas reported as impacted were plant safety, air
toxics and risk perception and acceptance.
Discussed the tax issue and its relative priority. Agreed
that it should be a high priority issue, but that it should
divert Association resources from Superfund and therefore should be
addressed utilizing principally member company personnel. Requested
that an appropriate action plan be prepared.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Mr. Herman reported on the most current financial report available
which covered the first two months of the fiscal year through July 31. In this
period the Association had revenue of $11,734,000 and expenses of $1,709,500. As
of September 3, dues had been received from all but nine members. is
continuing and no problem is anticipated at this time with respect to payment by
those companies.
He also reported that as
the Association's budgeted outside
earlier than In addition,
support the two tax policy studies
indicated by Mr. Berryman on the previous day,
consulting funds are being committed somewhat
$65,000 has been transferred internally to
which Mr. Bellamy reported on the previous day.
REPORT THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE
Reporting as Chairman of the Nominating Committee, Mr. Sella presented a
nomination to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors caused by the resignation
of Richard J. Mahoney of the Monsanto Company.
ON MOTION, duly made and seconded, it was
VOTED: That F. Jack Fitzgerald, Executive
Vice President, Chemicals, Plastics and
Fibers, Monsanto Company be elected as a
Director through May 31, 1986.
038296

SPECIAL POLICY COMMITTEE
Mr. Corless presented the annual report of the Special Programs Policy
Committee. He indicated the special programs area is generally operating well,
although there are several areas that need further attention, and that offers
many advantages to those companies desiring to establish special program
ties.
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
A summary of the group's annual report is attached as Exhibit H.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ISSUES
a. U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement
Mr. Spllner presented a
proposed position on a possible bilateral free trade agreement between the United
States and Canada. Mr. Clark indicated that the Executive Committee had recom­
mended the position for Board approval.
ON MOTION, duly made and seconded, it was
VOTED: That the proposed position state­
ment as presented by Mr. Spllner and as
set forth in Exhibit I be approved.
b. MTN Chemical Tariff Cutting
Mr. Spllner presented background
on a position statement regarding possible across-the-board chemical tariff
reductions in the next round of multilateral trade negotiations which
position had been presented to the Executive Committee the previous day. He
highlighted the areas of concern raised by the Executive Committee which will
require further review.
ON MOTION, duly made and seconded, it was
VOTED: That without prejudice the
original proposal, the International
Trade Committee review the issue in light
of the concerns raised by the Executive
Committee and bring forward a revised
proposal at the October meeting.
Board members were urged to provide their written comments on the MTN
Issue to the International Trade Committee as soon as possible.
QUALITY
Mr. Berryman also presented an overview of CMA's overall groundwater
program and activities which is attached as Exhibit J-l.
038297

Mr. Berryman presented a proposed position on the protection of groundwater quality which had been endorsed, amendments, by the Executive Committee
the previous day.
ON MOTION, duly made and seconded, it was
VOTED: That the position on the protec­
tion of groundwater quality, as set forth
in J-2, be approved.
ENERGY COMMITTEE
18
The committee's annual report, supplemented by report,
is attached as Exhibit K.
ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The committee's annual report, supplemented by Olsen's report,
is attached as Exhibit L. Following the report, there was considerable discussion
of the feasibility of sharing accident among companies and of provid­
analysis of longstanding industry practices which should be reviewed. It was
agreed that the Engineering Advisory Committee and the Health and Safety Committee
would examine these areas for possible action.
REPORT
Mr. Roland reported on the impact on CMA issues of the recent incidents
at Institute and other locations. He Indicated that there were four major areas
where ha believed the Association needed to focus Its efforts to meet the
heightened concern and potential legislative or regulatory activity. These areas
'included:
Full and aggressive implementation of the CAER and programs
Plant and process safety
Air toxics
Risk perception and acceptance.
Vith respect to the CAER and programs, Mr. Roland reported that a
proposal to staff and fund the CAER and Chemical Referral Center programs
for the remainder of the fiscal year had been referred to the Finance Committee
for further review prior to the October Executive Committee and Board meetings.
respect to the plant safety issue, it was agreed that closer
liaison with the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) was necessary,
ft was also agreed that the Health and Safety Committee and the Engineering
Advisory Committee are working on expanded activities in this area.
038298

respect Co the risk perception and acceptance Issue, Mr. Roland
Indicated that we would have to look for new and creative ways to communicate
effectively with the public.
NEW BUSINESS
a. Clean Sites Inc.
Dr, Forney presented an update on Clean
members to submit candidates' names to Dr. Fernandez who Is heading up the search
effort.
b. Tax
Mr. Malott urged that CMA take the lead on key
chemical Industry Issues, such as capital cost recovery and International
tiveness, as the tax reform debate accelerates. Mr. Sella Indicated that
Executive Committee was In agreement that this was a priority issue and a
work plan based on a high degree of member company participation would be brought
forward.
c. Superfund
The Importance of the assigned congressional visits
by the Directors was emphasized as was the need to coordinate and on those
of the Association's posture in the final weeks of the Superfund debate. The
Importance of maintaining solidarity In the approved CMA policy was
stressed.
e
e
On motion, duly made and seconded, the meeting was adjourned at 12 noon.
Charles U. Van Vlack
Corporate Secretary
Chairman, Board of Directors
038299
A
REPORT THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
TO THE BOARD DIRECTORS
September 9, 1985
executive summary

The Environmental Management Conittae's 1984-1985 year once again
working closely the State Affairs Committee address
accomplishments is set forth in Qiapter Z. A of these
accomplishments includes >
o The in conjunction the Government Relations Committee
has actively advocated reauthorisation and amendment of the full spectrum of enviroimmntal legislation ~
superfund, Resource Conservation and Recovery (RCRA),
the Safa Drinking water Act, Clean Air Act, Clean Water
Act. The end result of the 1984-85 efforts was a comprehensive
amendment of RCRA. efforts resulted in
modifications to the RCRA amandsents to make several require­
ments more palatable. We hevei
(1) proposed sound legisla­
tive alternatives; (2) promoted aendaents assure costeffective requirements; and (3) have opposed amendments that
unjustified restraints on industry operation and
environmental benefits. At this time, is a
Superfund, and the safe Drinking Water will be enacted
this year.
program is establish industry in member company
hazardous waste disposal practices. achieve this objec­
tive the conducted for the third year, a survey of
waste disposal practices for 1983, and is managing a
legislative and communications and as a part of the
full spectrum of solid waste activities.
o During the past year, the escalating issue of air
toxics has taken up an level of activity and has
great significance to the and the industry in the past
on monitoring and systems for chemicals and
emergency respons systems at chenieel industry plants. In a
038300
rwlated uptcti the EMC has established an ad hoe group to
davalop a comprehensive plan for air toxics. Although wa
ara still in tha phasas of this activity CMA's efforts
hava already begun to results. Wa ware prepared to
could be a series of legislative proposals on air toxics
o A second area of increased activity is in the groundwater
area. The EMC has in place for the past year an Ad Hoc
groundwater work plan. The of the work plan is
necessary to groundwater related issues at both the
Drinking water Act does not became the vehicle for addressing
groundwater CMA is viewed by members of Congress,
and as in the forefront on groundwater matters and
is looked to by other industry groups to play a leadership
role.
existing and recently mended PCRA hazardous waste require­
ments. One of the key EMC activities was to conduct three
seminars were held in conjunction the Council of Chemical
On the regulatory issues, efforts have been
primarily geared to assure that technically sound ACRA regular
we anticipate a vary high level of activity of
ACAA Regulations Task Group in addressing the new imple­
menting regulations to assure that they are needed, technically
