"Two percent investment by 1990" would not be intolerable."
doesn't the "Rooney Amendment" which place
"primarily on the state for granting variances for expansion or
new in areas where the national standard is being exceeded"
offs." (CMA CMA announced on April 5th, supplementing it
2/17/77 before the NAC on OSHA, "MCA said the chemical
industry is protecting its workers from known hazards. On the
other hand, we held that occupational cancer 'is not the major public health
spectre some have suggested.' 'Cancer is a complex subject,' we pointed
out. experts see the subject in perspective, and through
perspective we believe the problem and its reduction can be addressed
wants "a committee of cancer experts" to study the "available
composed from academia, industry, labor, toxicology groups and
government.
"qualified experts." "Each chemical must be addressed on a case-by-case
The third the CMA recommended that OSHA include in "a new
of "performance rather than specific routes to desired i.e. if
performance standards. 37258).
MCA's support "OSHA's 'ABC' Plan for Work Place Safety" which
would use on grade "B" companies and concentrate their
Q:\wp51
- and 37262-37296) - MCA Board of
(Last time concealed" is used unless I specifically say
concealed implantation Richard E. Heckert, the Senior
Advisor the Executive Committee on TASA. Heckert was to meet
ERA Costle to discuss the "tendency to over-regulate ...as well
as to the limited availability of testing facilities to conduct
toxicological 37265).
concealed report of their director on Government Relations.
37265 and 37276-285): "Heated battles...took place in both House
and Senate rules which will apply to the expansion of industrial facilities
in areas where air quality does not meet national health standards." CMA
refers to its to set the EPA 'trade off policy,' a broadly
Senate which considering those rules. 37283).
sufficient to properly administer the law..." In his request to the
appropriation authorizations on EPA (29 million for 1978 and 50 million for
1979), prior to having left his position in the EPA, the previous EPA
Administrator has asked for 52 million for 1978 instead of 29 million.
discusses proposed amendment to TSCA to establish Toxic
"...that the and State levels of governments should respond to
However, in the Environmental Organization supported a concept of
involving contributed by the manufacturers." does not say
whether it opposed or supported this legislature. 37284).
The Insurance reported to the board that "to put it simply,
The Liability is in a state of utter chaos..." CMA suggests "giving
serious assuming more of the risks, coupled with 'in-house'
risk discipline procedures to control losses. The name of the
game continues to be loss prevention." 37286).
The the Insurance Committee says he is "hopeful that
will be able to influence legislature to the benefit of the chemical
industry" regard to product liability "legislative activities.
37287)
Q:\wp51 \Mollie\37096-37464
CMA refers to its "finalization of a Loss Data Bank" which the
Insurance has been creating for the last five years and which
contain and pertinent information on property losses." ...Under
stewardship of MCA to provide of reporting in confidentiality...
concealed staff report, including the reference to its principle
concern: "Improved definition and interpretation of air quality standards,
on expansion in areas failing to obtain health standards, no­
relief from flexible statutory compliance deadlines." The Bentsen
Amendment allow exceptions in non-attainment areas "under certain
one ppm 10 eight-hour TWA, lowering the ceiling from 25 to 5
promised work on a permanent standard which would be
complete in months. 37295).
concealed it "arranged 56 television interviews and 72
radios interviews 16 member companies' representatives at this
American in Radio and Television Convention..." and "interviewed
ten industry and sent 1000 copies "of these interviews...to
extension home economists around the country for use on their local radio
Women in Radio and Television Convention "visited MCA's
concealed its discussion of "suggestion made some months ago
that consideration be given to merging (Society of Organic's
Committee and Board, a merger has been abandoned for the
present. Instead, closer liaisons is be maintained through
Council of Chemicals Manufacturers Federations") and discussions included
"governmental regulation of air and water pollution control and toxic
again concealed any reference to its environmental management
survey, here, in fact, the response to the request for the survey information
Q:\wp51
been "disappointing" only 89 companies submitting data which
compared to 1 30 "in a similar survey two years ago" [in which survey results
have also concealed]. (CMA 37266).
concealed its discussion of "OSHA Cancer Policy Proposal" and
MCA's having the NAS on OSH "urging the establishment of a
Review Committee of cancer experts from academia, government, labor,
6/8/77 - 12595-12596 and 37298-37307 - MCA Board of Directors
Meeting
concealed the meeting schedule of its Board of Directors of
1977-78, refers to meetings every month except July and August
fact that the E.P. Blanchard, the President of SOCMA, was in attendance in
action and that he would be pleased to continue to represent MCA and
fostering relationship." 37300).
concealed the fact that virtually all its "non-budgeted funds and
meetings" involved vinyl chloride or other chlorinated hydrocarbon research
37303). The second version (July, 1996) or 12596)
MCA moved to in the API's requesting review of
OSHA's benzene issued April 29th. 37307).
9/13/77 and 37309-37332)- MCA Board of Directors
concealed its policy on lobbying 37311 and
37320) which require substantial changes in reporting, record
The CMA wants to make sure that any new legislature at least it is limited to
Congress and to the Executive Branch or "grass-roots" lobbying activities
association and dues information..." 37320). [Of course,
would huge amounts of money to various public relations and

concealed the existence of its Chemical Regulation Advisory
Committee, Relations Advisory Committee, Insurance Committee,
incident. The CMA consistently concealed every reference to these
committees their activities throughout the documents it produced in this
case.
The CMA concealed the report of its Government Relations Committee
37321-326), including its reference to proposed labor reform
"LOBBYING REFORM BILLS, WHICH COULD SHARPLY AFFECT THE
concealed its alliance the NAM and the United States
would correct the inadequacies of the present lobbying laws without placing
the constraints and burdensome requirements on organizations
and individuals wishing to communicate members of Congress..." The
The CMA concealed the fact that the president (here, William J.
Driver) of the may himself "approve" studies which are "conducted
under the special projects program administrated by MCA."
Here, no VCM project was discussed (although an EDC project is
discussed); because of the systematic manner CMA redacted
relevant which would allow a reader to understand the context of
report. They all were redacted of the information which reveals this relevant
to how "special projects program" such as the MCA
administered projects operate, specifically the vinyl panel. The CMA
concealed its president's report of CMA's refinement of its "views on
reference to a "task force composed of members of the Chemical Regulations
Advisory and Retrieval Committees" which would
address the issues, including simply "total volume of
production" as "acceptable" method of "inventory reporting," etc.
its having told the EPA considering inadequate
methodology to develop the preliminary list that will be used to develop
12599-12600) - MCA Board of Directors Meeting Minutes.
(11/1/77) CMA recognized that OSH A activities "are of a continuing
interest to chemical industry, and Dr. Bingham's appearance especially
timely in of OSHA's recently proposed generic standards for
carcinogencity..." publishing of the Federal Registry on October
the staff report of its president. 37351-355).
its submission of a "long document" to OSHA on
the proposed conclusion that the health and safety of employees will be
enhanced by the standard from 10 ppm/25ppm 1ppm/5ppm"
and if there is "no evidence that leukemia has resulted from exposure to
declaration policy a position superior to a scientific evidence which
Congress has determined to be the primary basis for the of the
MCA's having "protested to the Environmental
Protection the efforts to the emissions of vinyl chloride even
further are and refers specifically a letter written by Driver
[also not produced to my knowledge] to EPA on 9/22/77 stating "that
member have grave concerns about EPA's zero risks/zero
emission regulation, it as an apparent departure from the
intent of for reasonably acting on the Clean Act Amendments of
a few years reports that more than 1 50 people took part in MCA's
annual on safety and health in the chemical industry' in New
Orleans last month." 37354). also concealed that Dr.
Assistant for Occupational Safety and Health, Department of
Labor, would speak at the Chemical Forum on 11/1/77 at Washington Hilton.
37355)
12601-12602 and 37356-37383) - Board of Directors
the participation of Blanchard, E.l. du
the proposed rules of organization and procedure for
the Chemical Regulations Advisory Committee 37359).
Although agreed that these minutes were not confidential years
responsive documents, here, a large section of the
discussion the Technical and Functional Committee reports it received
packaging, activities, government relations, insurance, labels and
etc.] (CMA 37359-360).
its discussion of its "Risks/Benefit Analysis" which
"highlighted carcinogencity as the crucial current problem relating to
risk/benefit analysis, resolution of the threshold concept being vital for
(CMA 37361).
the fact that what later came to be known as the
industry group for a rational cancer policy" and that the of this
committee on the Board of Directors. 37362). The purpose
of AIHC is to "bring rationality OSH A regulations concerning cancer." The
activities the AIHC are specifically identified as the result of "a joint
effort with and other trade associations as well as numerous
individual companies and various industries participating." provided
discussion a visit he made to OSHA Administrator Dr. Ula Bingham.
The AIHC was charged "to develop a list of suspected commercial
carcinogens" as well as that will assist a company to assess the
impact of action on its own operations, and information that will
help companies to prepare to testify." 37362).
the report its board of directors received from 104
member responding to surveys which indicate product liability
be a in respect to chemical manufacturing.." but "was not shown
Q:\wp51 \Mollie\37096-37464
be a major one as it is the case for machinery manufacturers or those
engaged in consumer products." [emphasis supplying]
Law as the remedy since that surely would be very expensive."
that its Board of Directors received reports from CUT
Fleming," its who introduced Dr. Goldberg, CIIT's president "who
spoke of Institute's objectives and progress in toxicological testing of
widely basic chemicals, research and test methods in
toxicology testing was "being supported by 29 companies a three-year
totaling 20 million dollars" and building a staff of 75.
Plaintiffs discovery, the various court orders, and plaintiffs
subpoena clearly and specifically requested regard to
contacts between and
that, except for a well-budgeted industry wide
benzene study, the entire budget for CMA Research relates to vinyl or
plastics VDC, Styrine, Acryiloniterile, Trichlorethylene, EDC,
Epichilorohydrin, Phthalate, Esters, Epoxy Resins??, and
Titanium CMA 12602, CMA's original production and 37366
the rules of organization and procedure of
knew plaintiffs knew about. However, CMA knew plaintiffs did not
know about Chemical Relations Advisory Committee of the CMA
whose purposes included advising the board "concerning the testing
and control of chemicals at the point of manufacturer identified
and chemical industry positions... cooperate other MCA
committees, and promote exchange of information within the chemical
government good practices in controlling chemical hazards.
that membership in this committee was limited
candidates "duties for his employer... include formulation of policies
direction of programs related to toxic substances control through
the existence of the "General Principles Applicable to
of the Secretary, the MCA Staff Representative assigned to
"General document and, in fact, systematically concealed the
existence the organizational structure in which the pertinent CMA
activities occurred. The original date of this document appears to have been
March 12, 1963, subsequent amendments 37372).
concealed the report of its Government Relations Committee
including discussions of TSCA amendments "MCA
activity this area... under way in the Legal Advisory Subgroup" of
concealed the existence of its Washington Environmental
concealed its staff report 37380-383), including its
that OSHA would "issue its standard sometime
between and of December" for benzene and its
awareness EPA, regulating benzene under Section 112 of the Air Quality
of Emissions and Risks to Human Health 37380).
Laboratories "to provide MCA information necessary for updating
safety data sheets and whether, in a particular instance [for
example, SD-56, which despite industry pledge to reissue in 1974 wouldn't
see the of day for years, if it ever did], a Safety Data Sheet would be
withdrawn from distribution pending revision..." 37381)
The CMA recognizes that there is only "approximately 100 chemicals we
have a safety data sheet" to begin with. 37381).
concealed existence of "plastics waste management" it first describes as
having "published in 1 970" and the existence of "flammability testing
of polymers" whose date is not given 37381).
and understanding of "notification of substantial risks under Section 8 (e)" of
TSCA is directly relevant to the Buse Audit of IBT discussed at the
Q:\wp51 \Mollie\37096-37464
session of the VCRC in 1980 where Ed Frost discussed
cause over reporting [!] of the agency and cause
serious difficulties for the chemical industry...," which, unlike the
ridiculous prediction of "inefficient over reporting," actually may have
"serious difficulties for the chemical industry..." which, at least in
the vinyl, was resolved "internally" through knowing violation of TSCA ad 8
the law or any requirement that it reported significant or true
regard to toxicity to anyone. 37382).
1/10/78 and 37385-37404) - MCA Board of Directors
indicates he was or became a vice-president as well. The
activities of Mr. Frost were relevant to this litigation and knew it long
before it started producing documents.
toward the chemical industry" in which a consultant discussed "findings of a
public attitude toward chemicals and chemical manufacturers
which he principally to concerns about health." 37386). CMA
concealed both the existence and the activities of its special committee on
product liability and continues to remain in contempt the court's order that it
produce copies of these documents. The same survey of MCA
industry, also concealed in previous documents (e.g., board minutes
11/21/77 CMA 37362). Here, continues to conceal information in
redacting (even in its most recent information on the grounds
that portions of the in these admittedly non-confidential
documents are somehow "privileged"; which, by the way, inconsistent with
claim regard to meeting minutes has been upheld and CMA's continued
"redacted" of these documents can only be considered in direct contempt of
the court's prior orders. 37387).
Consistent with its prior pattern, CMA concealed that it,
just leading up to the "OSHA proposal for generic regulation of
has still not produced relevant reports from its Technical and
Committees 37388-389) which "were distributed in
recent of the minutes (September, 1996) is not preceded by a copy
of the agenda (see, for example, the agenda for the previous board meeting
found in the reports of the Technical and Functional Committees, including
Relations Advisory Committee, Legal Advisory Committee, and even the
distribution along with the agenda. There is no reason that they
shouldn't have been produced here as well just because they were sent in
advance the meeting instead of distributed at the meeting. In fact, they
the are attached to the minutes. CMA has used the fact that
of recent meetings of the following committees were distributed
in with the tentative agenda" to conceal them, which they
have given up doing to some extent when the documents were
actually to the minutes, instead distributed in advance of
them. 37388. Also see evidence of concealment within
11/21/77 meeting minutes at 37360, etc.)
concealed the board's approval of "continuation of a multicomponent study of vinyl chloride at the University of Louisville."
37404)
of meals and eliminate deductibility country club dues paid
MCA concealed the appointment of E. B. Frost as an MCA Vice
"Mr. Driver's appointment of Mr. Frost (General as a Vice
President of the association was approved." 37407). concealed
the Special Review Committee report and all references to the report
and Exhibit B: CMA 37415-37439) "on three prior occasions1957, 1962, and 1968, Board level examinations of the objectives,
and program of the Association have been conducted by
study to assist MCA's fitness and respect to services and
effective action on industries behalf..." 37415).
included that "because overwhelming legislative,
and Functional Committee work, is often hampered by lack of
decisive and timely support." 37415).
in some instances there is a specific need [emphasis
applied] for review by council, there is a tendency to request council
an or legislative body, resulting in delay of needed evaluation."
There is reference to the strong feelings "some members of the MCA"
regarding regulation and questions." 37416).
the changes in its committee structure effective
6/1/78, if accomplished, consolidated the previous Air Quality, Solid
consolidated into a Occupational and Health Committee; and Chemical
Transportation and Distribution, Transportation Equipment
consolidated into a "Distribution" committee. The
as well the dissolution of the "Legal Advisory" Committee which,
Executive Committee Member's corporate staffs. The Industrial
Advisory Committee was discontinued and the Plastics Committee
was discontinued. 37418). Especially, considering the courts
primarily, of production of documents, CMA has consistently
this sort of relevant, almost essential relating to its
structure and operation. 37417-418).
go through the Executive Committee, on the recommendation of
Committee appointment goes to the Board for ratification. 37418).
"fifteen in number" was against the general rule and must have
"This says that the of individual committee members was to be
limited to three years! 37419). one-third of the membership
rotated annually." 37419).
Despite the clarity of plaintiffs allegations and the clear relevance of
adequacy on TSCA, 37420 and 37422), these documents
clearly show CMA's intention to step up its advocacy efforts. "MCA should
take an active role in implantation process of TSCA which EPA was to
shortly undertake. concealed was, which monitored CMA's
Technical Committees, was created "in furtherance of this [advocacy] role."
of this role, a newly constituted Chemical Regulations Advisory
Committee is be primarily concerned the development of
TSCA.
MCA claims to stand by its previous "policy" (followed only
when it suited to avoid "questions involving a particular... chemical
things have changed now and: "Nevertheless, should a
proposed regulation involve a precedent-setting or principle,
or for other special reasons, may be important for MCA to take a position."
the independence of MCA member companies," which is relevant
because it is a MCA advocacy does, in fact, restrict the independence
of MCA companies and documents produced in this case prove it.
The CMA concealed its reference to the "sharp rebuke" which the
which would create a separate department of consumer advocacy in
before other agencies, and empowered to appeal agency
regulatory decisions. 37426). This had been before Congress in
one or another for eight years. A passed the House during
stated to have been " the massive lobbying effort in opposition which was
by the community" as well as "evidence of a back-lash
critical of Congressmen who are undecided, and especially so when they
to be former allies." 37426).
\Mollie\37096-37464
its "Legislative Communication Programs," including the reference to the
survey of 107 responding companies showing 2,381,079 employees,
"specific efforts" to various employers were made or weren't
making inform employees, stockholders, and retirees about pending
legislative issues and the potential impact on the company." 37432).
including the president's having written OSHA that the
would this incredible burden on all U.S. industry and the U.S. public."
of emissions from facilities producing or benzene, which is reported
"The for the Preparation of Safety Data Sheets is now available
in a edition, its sixth revision," despite the relevance of SD-56 to
allegations and discovery, subpoenas, etc. All copies of this Guide
Consistent with prior practice, concealed showing
that AIHC was the child of industry and that its "proposed 'alternatives'
regulation of carcinogens appear to be receiving serious
by OSHA and labor. 37409).
has again concealed the reports of the Technical and Functional
- and 37445-37464) - MCA Board
with its prior practices, CMA concealed its discussion of
the and its large budget: "Originally AlHC's purposed solely to the
OSHA for generic regulations carcinogen. A poll of its supporting
companies has approved broading the scope to apply to carcinogens in the
work which regulatory body is involved." (Amended 4/11/78 replacing
the "carcinogen in the work place" "generic cancer policies.")
\Mollie\37096-37464
the report of its Government Relations Committee
37447 and 37454-460), including discussion of the "Chemical Injury
on panels, etc.
its staff report 37461-464) discussing MCA's
appearance at hearings on the proposed generic carcinogen regulations,
references to having developed TSCA
37463), CMA's intervention in the API's appeal of the
concealed its reference to its submission of "a final report of an
study of the mortality of workers and workers employed in
the production of vinyl chloride and its polymers. The report covers the
investigations from June 15, 1973 through December, 1977. The research
10,173 workers from 37 plants and the contractor indicated that
concealed its support of a "tax-exempt organization" called the
Wheelan, "author of 'Panic in the Pantry' and other books which take a
science in governmental and public decisions and are pledged to
out when fallacy or emotion replaces fact in their specialties. ACSH is
not accept support from any chemical company or any company in
However, concealed that Dr. Wheelan "would be happy to hear from
you" if "you are [a member of the board of directors of the Chemical
Association] interested in the work of the council and know of
sources of funds, such as foundations..." 37464).
Q:\wp51 \Mollie\37096-37464
