These individuals today are more willing and capable of
representing companies and our industry than ever before.
It's also clear to the committee that many companies are now
placing value on communications skills when senior
management selects the people to serve as your plant managers.
On the media relations front in 1986, the committee felt that we
generally received fair coverage. Our relationships with
environmental for many major media were further
- regard, and we had another year to Increase our industry's
credibility with these reporters. In addition, all of our skins
got a little thicker in 1986 as the industry learned anew
that working the media is a tough, no-nonsense, and sometime
frustrating part of all of our Jobs. As a result, our collective
tolerance level the media is even higher than it was. We
have learned no one story or episode is critical and
press.
I think a few are worth comment.
According to one prestigious national survey, the public's view
of our Industry measurably. Our approval rating in this
survey Increased by about 40 percent during 1986. However,
fairness me to point out that we started the year dead
last among 15 a rating so low that any
seem large by comparison. This improvement,
though slight, moved us from 15th place to about 12th or 13th on
038789
the industry list. We're above the alcohol and nuclear power
industries and close to the electric utility industry. Now
our standing doesn't begin to compare the ratings of the
top-rated industry or the food and retailing industries.
But we moved up a notch or two and our ranking is the highest
it's been since That has to qualify as good news.
This survey two other items of special interest. First,
in a special questionnaire, the plastics Industry received an
approval rating would place it at about 5th place on the
15-industry Since many of the companies here today have
some interest in plastics, this approval rating should be
encouraging.
public's Improved noticeably. In 1982 the oil guys
were in last By the fourth quarter of 1986 oil had moved
all the way up to about the of the 15 industries. So
major improvement is possible if we persevere.
public's opinion about us stayed the same or improved only
slightly. We to be rebounding slowly from last year's
Yet we should confuse these slight improvements with any
of the public's concern about the environment and our
industry.
place concerns very high among their priorities,
even to the of preferring the environment over jobs or
higher prices when faced with a choice in the surveys.
The public feels that the environment is improving, but feels
The public to rank the disposal of hazardous wastes as
its number one concern and cites the chemical
industry as the country's primary source of air and
water pollution.
Faced with these conditions, the communications committee's 1987
objectives our enthusiasm to support CHA's advocacy
efforts and the opportunity parlay these efforts, where
Heading our list for 1987 Is the followup on our CAER
communication of 1986. If there is a member
plant that yet conducted a CAER communications activity,
we want to find and get it on track with the rest of the
industry.
038790
CAER has been leadership effort for the chemical industry
during this decade and we must not let it wither either in an
operating or a communications sense. The committee's greatest
fear is that our plant people will become complacent about CAER
Another of the many values of CAER is that it gives us the
opportunity to from strength in conducting our future
the committee staff are building on CAER's success in
tackling the
Superfund.
In the air area, a survey of the committee found that most
of the companies intend to treat their air toxics communications
as an extension of the CAER program.
some communications barriers that are quite different from our
CAER effort.
widely differing product slates. So while one plant can boast to
the local media about its relatively clean products and lack of
toxic air emissions, a neighboring plant manager may have a devil
emissions of highly-toxlc products. Remember too that most
of these same plants worked closely together in introducing the
' CAER program to the community. The unified local approach that
worked so well the CAER program also could suffer when
different plants are at different stages of implementing their
air toxics programs.
Another concern that many plant managers understandably are
reluctant to be as aggressive in promoting the air toxics issue
as they were The reason is clear: Admitting
chronic air of toxic chemicals is not a pleasant duty.
And in some managers are not in a position to comment about
In overcoming these concerns, the communications committee,
staff, and your local managers will carry out a comprehensive and
air toxics workshop earlier this month in
Houston. It was attended, Including many plant managers,
cautious in our approach to this communications program, and I
hope you agree our thinking.
038791
helping local plant people cope the Title III provision of
Superfund. These provisions will require your plants to make
more available about your products and processes than
ever before. It all be available at once and it will be
information out of context. The committee has formed a
communications in this area.
Our final major objective in 1987 is to continue to assist the
state chemical in improving their communications
capabilities. We've already have made important progress in
more states in future.
This activity becomes more important when you realize
help and we continue this partnership.
following up on CAER communications, extending our communications
activities cover the air toxics and Title III issues, and
working with the CICs. These objectives are in addition, of
course, to our work other committees within CMA
provide communications counsel and hands-on help as required.
The committee feels that these goals are achievable with current
manpower and current resources.
I would like to close a comment that doesn't fall readily
into our normal communications topics.
The committee feels that we should be wary of the recent attacks
on the "corpocracy" of major U.S. companies. While
it's too early to call this a major trend, there are a lot of
people cut Including some in the current administration,
who may well be taking shots at U.S.
Executives be blamed for everything from working too hard
organizations sacrificing the blue-collar worker's future for
Along these lines, GM may be the first company to enter this
quagmire. That so-so the Perot buyout,
capabilities of those managing the giant auto company.
038792
GM may be the first, we shouldn't be fooled into thinking
the public's will stop there. This is a trend we'll
all have very closely.
In conclusion, saw the chemical industry's reputation
the public improve for the first time in several years. This
uptick did not about by accident. It occurred because we
operated moved aggressively to meet the public's
legitimate concerns about our operations, and took the time to
tell people what we were doing.
Through CAER other programs we showed a lot of confidence in
the American last year. Maybe they're beginning to return
that I hope so.
We look forward to earning your continued support throughout
1987. I will be pleased to try to answer any questions you might
have about the committee and our 1987 plans.

038793
m
annum, report
or
THE PATENT AND COMMITTEE
JANUARY 27,
EXECUTIVE
policies at home and abroad. The PATC has also advocated CMA positions
directly foreign authorities, as appropriate, and other domestic
During the past year, through the PATC, has obtained increased
visibility and in the industrial property rights area.
negotiations.
positions federal laboratory utilization legislation, government
patent policy, and amendments to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as
amended.
In addition to advocacy efforts on legislation, the Committee
prepared comments for submission by on a number of regulatory
and international issues.
The Comnittee participated in a number of the Administration's
investigations and activities on the international
Trade Committee on the appropriate role of this subject in the new Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations.
In all these the Committee has
stressed the of strengthened patent protection to U.S.
technological continued recovery, and productivity.
The PATC also played an important communications role in 1986 in
keeping CMA's member companies apprised of developments on industrial
property rights issues. The Committee communicated the Board of
Directors and member companies on a number of patent issues through
mechanisms such as Action Advisories, other reports, and newsletters.
By playing this coimnunications role, the Committee not only disseminated
information to companies, but also became on the positions
of the members on patent issues. The Committee, in turn, was then better
Finally, it is to note that the Conmittee has carried out
technical or comnents were prepared and advocacy activities
carried out by members, other designated CMA member company
representatives, and CMA staff. We also do not anticipate any major

038794
N
The Environmental Management Conmittee's (EMC) Ad Hoc Task Group on
Waste Minimization presented a status report describing the vaste
minimization issue's importance and a possible CMA program at the
November Board of Director's meeting. The purpose of this review is
obtain approval of a recommended CMA program.
BACKGROUND
(RCRA) require companies to establish voluntary waste minimization
programs and certify actions. Several states have in place or are
minimization efforts are also scrutinized when for
waste facilities are requested. Alternatives for stronger federal
action are in recent reports to Congress by the Office of
Technology Assessment and EPA. Applying greater pressure to force
groups. This goal is reflected in various thrusts toward achieving
zero discharge and opposition to new treatment and disposal
facilities.
minimization will be evaluated by Congress in hearings
beginning in 1987. If industry cannot demonstrate sufficient
adopt extreme amendments as part of RCRA's reauthorization which is
scheduled in 1988. The amendments could include such undesirable
process restrictions, and outside audits.
Companies are already confronted with increasing costs of vaste
disposal as expands the scope of wastes regulated as hazardous
requirements, and further tightens controls over waste management
practices. companies have significantly reduced their waste.
At this time, there is no reliable national data to
demonstrate progress, and F.PA's programs are under
attack.
III.
TIMING
Waste minimization is likely to be an issue in RCRA hearings and
In addition, EPA is committed improve waste
minimization and data bases in 1987, which it must do to
reduce Congressional oversight pressures. CMA needs to start its
program early 1987 to provide assistance to EPA and to develop an
reasonable. the issue is not at a crisis stage, by
establishing a program and data base early, will be in the best
038795

WASTE MINIMIZATION
Ob 1 active - and assise member companies in reducing wastes
at the source, increasing recycle, and reducing disposal risks.
o
o
avoiding legislation that mandates waste reduction;
o
limiting costs and future cleanup liability; and
o
Proposed CMA Position on Waste Minimization
member have programs in place that have resulted in
achieve progress, individual companies are encouraged to
opportunities exist in their operations. will and
Activities
o
An industry program to promote and assist member companies in
and carrying out waste minimization programs (i.e.,
workshops, resource manuals, newsletter, and swards
o
Legislative regulatory advocacy support to address waste
minimization before Congress and EPA.
o
Measurement of waste minimization progress in order to document
progress definitions of key terms, definition of
measurement evaluation of existing data systems and
o
Communications of member company and industry waste
development of a strategy to effectively communicate
a continuing basis).
Further programmatic action, i.e., establishing percentage
reduction similar CMA's snsrgy conservation program or
enactment of eir toxics type control program with detailed
implementation steps, may ba considered and recommended in the
future to the Comittee and Board of Directors on an as
needed basis.
038796


o
To support the four activities noted above, a portion of a
professional and some support staff time will be
necessary. A for the necessary personnel is being
o
Outside Purchased Services Impact
The EMC has recomended $A0K funding for outside purchased
services as part of their FT 87/88 budget proposals.
o
Member Resources Impact
Approximately 10 15 member company volunteers will be needed
to carry this effort forward through design and implementation.

The EMC approval of CMA implementing a new waste
minimization
VII.
ACTION

038797
0
CONCEPTS TOR LEG!STATION
I. Background
Ci.ti.2ans public officials groundwater contamination as a
issue aimed at commercial and industrial sources.
Several federal groundwater introduced in the 94th Congress,
will serve to focus future groundwater debates. Senator Purenberger
federal early in tha 100th Congress. Similar will
be introduced in the House. Groundwater legislation could imposa product
usa (e.g., pesticides, detergents, solvents), require
additional or remediation activities, and introduce onerous
Many states have or are enacting groundwater legislation and are
implementing management programs. State efforts may establish
tha need for usa restrictions, land usa planning decisions, new
victim compensation concerns, and site-specific regulatory frameworks
which could be tima/cost consuming.
establish CMA federal legislative concepts and a legislative
strategy for in tha federal groundwater debate. these
concepts, will strive influence tha Congressional groundwater
debate so any legislation enacted resembles CMA's position as closely
as possible. support this effort, is prepared ro participate
activaly in federal groundwater debate during the 100th Congress.
Early in tha debate will hal'p CMA focus the emerging
discussions will identify CMA aa an involved knowledgeable party.
II. Simary of CMA's Concepts for Federal Groundwater Legislation
reside the states. Each state should develop and Implement a
comprehensive groundwater management program. A state groundwater
management program should address the following components: (I) character­
standards; protsction; (4) remediation; (5) monitoring; and (6)
interstate groundweter impacts.
these tasks. assistance cen include: (1) federal funding to assist
(2) technical Information and guidance; and (3) scientifically-based
criteria and for states' use in making groundwater protection
and remediation decisions. Howsver, ths federal involvement should not
include the to make decisions for the state about the most
appropriate way to implement the components of the state program.
038798
2
III. TIjm
Groundwater b« addraased as a kay issue in tha 100th Congress.
To ensure CMA has an active voice in the debate, federal
advocacy need to be approved early in 1987.
IV. Recoenendat ion
Tha EMC has reviewed and approved these concepts for federal
groundwater legislation. The EMC recommends approval of the concepts
paper.
Approve CMA's concepts for federal groundwater legislation.

038799
for Groundwater Legislatlon
State Groundwater Management Prograa
Each stata should davalop a groundwater management program. Oevelopman
and implementation of the program would be the responsibility of the
state; but assistance should be available to help the state
perform these tasks. Failure by the state to develop a program would
only lead to a loss of any further federal assistance for program
A program to characterize state groundwater resources to the
extent necessary for state planning.
Use of groundwater objectives and standards.
A prograa to protect state groundwater resources from
sources of contamination.
A process to address groundwater remediation needs.
A monitoring program.
A process to address interstate groundwater Impacts.
The are detailed descriptions of each of these components.
Groundwater Characterization
The state establish a program to characterize its
groundwater to the extent necessary for the state
planning.
The program rely on existing data where that is
available feasible.
The state should consult with the United States Geological
Survey and the United States Environmental
Protection for guidance on the
characterization program.
portions of groundwater resource, if it determines chat
such action not necessary at that time.
Based upon its characterization program, the state could
divide its into various categories, which may
require management approaches.
Groundwater and Standards
The stata must establish appropriate groundwater objectives.
Objectives individual aquifers or portions of
aquifers.
The oust identify the current and reasonably
anticipated uses of the groundwater.
that will protect availability of the groundwater for
those uses. Standards must be set
For drinking water supply, the state must use
maximum levels (MCL's) adopted by EPA under the
Safe Water Act, whenever a substance has an MCL.
The state use criteria developed by EPA to sac
numarleal usa standards. would require e new work
effort, development, at EPA.)
The state davalop
resources from sources
groundwater
the goal of
a program to protect its groundwater
Tn developing the
program, the state should consider
releases to
In developing its protection program, the state must
identify and evaluate existing and potential sources of
The program include, as appropriate, source controls,
The program be coordinated existing source control
and must be existing federal provisions
concerning hazardous waste treatment or disposal
capacity.
The program address all significant sources of
Source controls could apply uniformly statewide or could
Source control requirements should make appropriate
distinctions among new and old sources, different types of
sources, specific unique sources.
Protection must take into account applicable
groundwater objectives and standards. Some minimum
protection should be developed for all areas of the
state.
038801
(e.g., voluntary controls, regulations,
Tha program include adequate authority for the state to
Groundwater
remediation needs.
When needed, remedial measures should be formulated on a
groundwater objectives/standards.
applicable and federal laws, including state tort
significant remedial concerns.
The remediation process must include adequate authority for
the state enforce remedial requirements.
Monitoring Programs
The program must be formulated to serve three purposes;
groundwater objectives and standards.
b. Provide on groundwater trends and,
c. Provide on sources of contamination as
necessary.
The program must include measures to ensure that data
gathered scientifically valid.
The state consult with the United States Geological
Survey and for guidance on developing the monitoring
program.
The state could establish a data management system that
all relevant monitoring data. The data
management should include information so the user
can the quality control and quality assurance of
038802

Interstate
interstate and to develop interstate agreements,
where
038803
Concepts Federal Groundwater legislation
Federal in Groundwater Management
Federal would be available to assist the states in
programs.
If a state a groundwater management program to EPA
that all of the required components, EPA must accept the
program and provide funding to assist in implementation.
EPA may not judge the substantive adequacy of the state program
as long as state program includes all of the required
componenta and the state certifies that their program complies
the statutory requirements.
EPA and must assist the states by and providing
groundwater quality criteria, technical and
guidance on groundwater issues.

038804
P
TRADE LAW IMPORTS THREATENING
Current lav authorizes the President to restrict imports of
maintained by the General Services Administration. Additions the
list are handled by the Department of Commerce through a petition
process. A ruling on the petition must occur within one year of its
filing.
President, but no deadlines currently exist for Presidential actions.
considered be chemicals are either ores or chemical element
products. there is good reason to believe chat, as
petrochemical industries continue to develop in research-rich areas of
the world U.S. plant closures, additional chemical products
such as petrochemicals would be added to the list.
Congress. The International Trade Committee has already proposed a
number of to the Board which address different facets of
existing law which will be able to address either directly or
through coalitions during the upcoming Congressional deliberations.
POSITION:
supports the strengthening of Section 232 of the Trade
Expansion of 1962 and recommends the following chenges to achieve
this aim.
o Shorten time period allotted for the Secretary of Commerce
to act on 232 petitions.
o Shorten time for existing mandatory deadlines, or
deadlines none exist, by which both the Secretary of
Commerce the President must act on Section 232
o Require disclosure of final actions on petitions.
ACTION REQUESTED
Approval attached position.


LAW IMPORTS THREATENING NATIONAL

Current
Section of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 authorizes the
President restrict imports of products which threaten national
security. lav requires the Secretary of Commerce to begin an
imports of a produet upon the request of another government
agency or an interested party, or his own volition.
security, must advise the President within one year of the
initiation of the investigation. However, the President is not
obliged to answer this petition within a specific period.
Sampling Proposals Made for Legislative Changes
Several proposals have been made to establish deadlines for
Presidential action, such as a requirement that the President act
within one year after receiving the Secretary's advice. Another
would establish a 90-day deadline. Some would im­
USTR and require the USTR to act within the 90 days after
receiving Secretary's recommendations.
United States in times of national emergency. The Federal
Government should ensure that import competition does not hinder
plies of these essential products.
Legislation that would
provide deadlines will force the Administration to focus on
questions of national security and imports in a timely manner.
seems since the is part of the Administration
and as a matter would not act without the President's

fall into the category of essential national security.
The issue as to what extent the national security and foreign
lover and the question of what national security costs
should be borne by the taxpayers to protect;against supply
n ed to be addressed.

Expansion Act of 1962 and recommends the following changes to
sector petitions to initiate a Section 232
within 90 days a decision Bust be Bade by the Secretary
whether to proceed the investigation or
Secretary of CoBaerce and the President Bust act on
which recommendations to the President. The
recommendations of the Secretary of Commerce to the
President Bust be made no later than 6 months after an
upon the within 90 days and make public


Q
American Standard for Precautionary
labeling of Hazardous Industrial Chemicals
(ANSI Z129.1-1987)
lines the chemical industry. In 1976, CMA became the
National Standard for Precautionary Labeling of Hazardous
Industrial Chemicals. The guidelines then became a voluntary
standard under the auspices of the American National
Institute
ANSI Z129.1 was published in 1976 and 1982, and has been
extensively revised by the Health and Safety Committee's
Labeling Task Group for a 1987 printing. After presentation to
the ANSI consensus process by which CMA member companies,
interested industry groups, labor government agencies,
consumer coalitions and professional societies review and vote on
the Final submission to the ANSI Board of Review is
for mid-1987.
particularly relevant to the chemical industry for the following
reasons:
o
The OSHA Hazard Cosstunication Standard requires labeling
o
In 1986, OSHA field inspectors issued citations to CMA member
for a variety of labeling violations, including the
lack of organ/system hazard warnings on labels.
o
The nature of the OSHA Hazard
lines in ANSI Z129.1 provide both guidance and flexibility
companies.
o
A trend toward industry liability for alleged
occupational illnesses has put the industry at risk for
failure fulfill the "duty to warn."
ISSUES IN ANSI Z129.1-1987;
o
In of the regulatory and liability issues listed
of delayed (chronic) hazards and target organ/
system
o
Guidance for immediate (acute) hazards has been revised.

o
As ouch S3 possible* all guidelines in the standard have been
compared and adjusted for compliance with hey regulatory
statutes, e.g., the OSKA Hazard Comnunication Standard, TSCA,
OCT labeling requirements, etc.
PLANS;
ACTION
o
of the availability of the standard in trade
newsletters, and other appropriate forums.
o
groups, and government officials in 1987-1988.

Endorse the submission of the proposed revised
standard (ANSI for consensus
review, followed by American National Standards


PRODUCERS “FAIR
SALES
162.5
227.5
325.0
125.0
107.5
150.5
215.0
82.0
55.0
77.0
110.0
42.0
40.0
50.0
80.0
30.0

27.5
38.5
55.0
20.0

17.5
24.5
35.0
14.0
TO
13.0
3.25
UNDER
*

SITES REVENUE SOURCES
84/85
85/86
86/87
87/88
88/89
89/90

OTHER
TOTAL
s
HIGH INTEREST, GUARANTEED MINIMUM RETURN.
TAX ADVANTAGES, AND A PAYROLL SAVINGS
means
of
8E resolved that the Chemical Manufacturers Association
THEREFORE,

in which
are individually asked to enroll in
THE PROGRAM, OR TO INCREASE THEIR ALLOTMENTS IF CURRENTLY

