EXHIBIT D
Report of
Education Committee

November 20, 1972
By Henry W. Rahn, Chairman
It is three years since the EAC Committee last reported directly this Board.
In the several significant developments have occurred affecting the area
wherein the Committee functions - namely, the industrial-academic interface. These
include: - employment opportunities for new technical graduates in the chemical
industry to low levels; seeond - a wave of technical staff reductions by job
ran through the industry in 1970 and 1971; and third - society's attitude
toward our underwent deterioration where we now labor under the burden of
a negative image. It is most appropriate, therefore, and I welcome this op­
portunity to review for you the Committee's objectives, plans and activities, structured
to meet our assignment and responsibility the MCA under conditions so changed from
the past.
COMMITTEE
The was first established in the 50's when, as you will recall, there
was a shortage of graduate chemists. The initial objective was to encourage students
i pursue a in chemistry, so as to assure an adequate supply of chemists for the
xpanding of our industry.
graduate studies lad several of our members to predict that the high post
World War birth rates would result in an oversupply of chemists in the early 70's. The
chemical beginning in 1969, and the layoffs of employed chemists and chemical
years of age or less were unemployed. Faced these unsettling aspects in the job
market, the Committee decided to modify its objectives. Instead of stressing recruitment,
we began to focus on the quality and type of training suitable for chemists going into
industry.
CMA 036213
In looking ahead, we are confronted a confused picture concerning the
power. long-range studies reaching into the 1980's by such prestigious groups
as the National Science Foundation, Scientific Manpower Commission, Engineering
Labor reach varying forecasts, ranging from prediction of years of oversupply dire
warnings of impending shortages.
Perhaps is to be expected as the nation grapples the problem of changing
priorities and shifting activities. And in view of this, it would appear that the use of
historical data for predicting technical manpower supplies ten years from now forces
some degree of uncertainty into the forecasts. But the weight of the evidence seems to
on the of an impending shortage. The short-range forecasts, on the other hand,
as mode by competent groups, are considered be much more reliable. We
can these figures with more confidence. In general, such studies predict we
could develop in the supply of scientific and engineering graduates. As
responsible members of the chemical industry, I believe there is cause for us to be
- over both the short and long range situation. I will not burden you a
complete statistical analysis that supports this conclusion, but here are some significant
details.
First, undergraduate enrollments for majors in chemistry have historically increased
modestly each year. In 1970, however, the number of S. degrees awarded in
chemistry for the first time in 20 years. We conclude that a high "drop out"
rate between entry and graduation for chemistry majors has taken place.
Second, the number of first year graduate students in chemistry programs has
declined 25% since 1966. Statistics for each year indicate an increased number of
fields.
Third, enrollments and earned degrees in engineering are declining
From the total engineering bachelor supply of 43,000 graduating in
1971, the output in 1975 is expected to fall to 31,000.
degrees, are some that claim that even larger decreases in the employed technical
woricforce may be necessary, as an adjustment to changing R & D priorities. If this be­
comes nee I susp ct w will find the students moving ever farther away from the
chemical a developm nt we would all like to avoid if possible.
CMA 036214
The chemical industry, as you well know, is an industry of great complexity,
requiring high level intellects to effectively develop, manage and operate
will largely on the prestige of the occupation, working conditions and personal
engineers, we make the prediction this number will remain a reasonably stable percentage
f the industrial workforce. At the risk of oversimplification, we have reached this
conclusion by assuming two important opposing demand trends will tend to balance each
other. The downward trend involved R/D. During the past 25 years, i^ft activities
accounted a large fraction of total technical employment. this fraction tending
to become as R/D is de-emphasized, one can logically reason future needs for
and the energy crisis, which heretofore have not been factors of any
cance as or chemically trained personnel, could possibly impose heavy future de­
sequently, we believe continued reductions in chemistry and engineering majors and
earned will likely leadto shortages of technical graduate manpower resources.
In view of the uncertainty surrounding future needs, it is tempting to adopt a "wait and
. Further, it will likely intensify the negative image many students and young faculty,
specially non-science areas, have for the chemical and other technically-oriented
in four eight years are, in fact, today's problems because the new chemists and engineers
' we will hire then are in the educational pipeline now.
OF
in our the question then arises as to what steps we can take to restore it. We
positive In conjunction the Public Relations Committee, we are organizing an
effort to define a program for your consideration. Meanwhile, I urge you to give,
important continuing influence on the educational system and on national manpower
planning
- PLANS - ACTIVITIES -
according t the greatly altered mployment and economic eonditi ns confr nting member
Our objective became: "To promote through the educational system
public of the chemical industry; to assist in career guidance; to enhance
the quality of education in chemistry, chemical engineering and interdisciplinary
in a broad intellectual, cultural and social context at all levels of education." We
thus our primary mission to collaborate with educators and educational
systems. activities were then reorganized and channeled into three categories,
all to be of importance in attaining our objectives. These are:
Q
I
i
chemical
public of the chemical industry
Each area of concern is assigned a separate mibcommittee. Concerning their work,
This finds itself in the paradoxical situation of motivating students toward chemistry
at a time when trained scientists are unemployed. This contrasts a past period of
more than two decades when expansion and growth of the industry assured multiple job
student made a career decision remained essentially unchanged 4 or 8 or 10 years later
for specific positions could be described succinctly in terms of course require­
ments and skills. Career guidance was then a very legitimate facet of recruitment in
advance, there are concrete job openings. Only recently have some associations,
Some few ago the Career Guidance Subcommittee began to redirect its efforts to
is a need for people a chemical background but, as you know, the ap­
plication of their education and training might not to the traditional and
academic of the chemist or chemical engineer. The subcommittee encourages
those particular ability and interest in chemistry to a career in R & D. However,
for most industry, the translation of theoretical into practical realities
lations the action is." Consequently, an education should be directed
skills of the student.
Several career booklets were developed to present the new approach to
more 4,500 educators, students and administrators who requested copies. A new
edition of the booklet will be distributed early next year, incorporating many helpful
suggesti ns received from teachers and students.
and During the 1971-1972 fiscal year, for example, we filled requests
for more than 30,000 career booklets and 10,000 flyers. It is preferable, as you
will to be ahead of change rather than unwitting victims of it.
This also assists and encourages the increased number of those who
elect as a cultural background or as a foundation for careers in fields
such as law and marketing which have competing claims on technicallytrained men and women.
CHEMICAL EDUCATION
success acceptance among academic chemists during the past two years, members
collaborated, by invitation, the National Science Foundation in the preliminary
planning and implementation of a new educational program in which industry and the
academe jointly study the process of innovation and of expediting the process by
which ideas are transferred into curricula or marketable products.
The work of this subcommittee is now focused in three areas:
College and High School Teacher Awards
Influence on Curricula
Interface Conferences
' College Awards; Since 19S7, MCA has honored 75 outstanding professors of chemistry
and engineering. As one of the foremost national awards on the college level
in the U.S. and Canada, the program has attained prestige and is considered by many
r cent recipients as the pinnacle of their teaching careers.
In 1972, the six medalists were featured in a cover study in Chemical and Engineering
News a cover headline in the Journal of Chemical Education, a first for MCA in
each of these magazines. In 1972, we received more than 430 inquiries and processed 182
V*IT
In the two years we conferred five college awards on the campus of the recipient.
S veral of you represented MCA at these ceremonies and contributed this new
dimension of industry-education contact. As a result of these campus ceremonies,
several major institutions re-evaluated their programs honoring excellence among their
faculty, another plans to initiate an honors convocation and another broke an old
and gave public notice of the award at commencement.
CMA

local awards of The program, administered by Chemical Industry
was restricted to teachers within the locale of the council. In 1973,
we will open the program, making any teacher in the U.S. and Canada eligible for
a award of or for the new national award of $1,000. The expanded
program has aroused an enthusiastic response. To date, we have processed 66 requests
for information and nomination
on the school and lower college levels. When we first made the suggestion, our
message went unheeded among educators who intensified the theoretical content of
education conferences and educators concur our proposal. We collaborate
theory.
In the first title in a 10 book, MCA-sponsored "Chemistry in Action Series" was
published by Doubleday. The books related practical stories and personal accounts of
been sold enrich high school and lower level college chemistry courses. Eight of
these appear in foreign language editions similar this Japanese version of
Water Everybody's Business, and one title in a U.S. Service edition in
Ind ia. the ftooks beportment of the American Chemical Society now publishes the
series. We cooperate in enlisting authors and assisting in the preparation of manuscripts .
Since Holt, Rinehard and Winston published four MCA-sponsored innovative
laboratory manuals for elementary and secondary schools. More than 165,000 copies
have sold. MCA is widely known and esteemed for this service. We will request
modest funding to one of these manuals in the next fiscal year.
summarized and submitted our recommendations. In the past six months,
the chairman of the ACS committee acknowledged our contributions before more than 300
of college chemistry departments and, on another occasion, before more than 450
educators.
Interface Conferences; We initiated experimental and innovative conferences of
an increasing need for this type of dialog. Members of the subcommittee share
their exp rience member companies who have organized similar sessions.
CMA 036218


PUBLIC THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
gr ater public understanding of the chemical industry through the educational system.
Their efforts are directed primarily to the non-science student and faculty who harbor
a negative attitude toward industry. Many of these apostles,
be sure, have the naivete of youth but share us in industry a bigness of concern
f r Their zeal and energies seek direction toward constructive as well as
through interface seminars indicates that they have done their homework well
but lack an over-all and balanced view of a particular problem. They are un­
they are open and willing to learn and change their attitudes.
The coordinates its efforts with Mrs. Walton's Consumer
We make suitable education materials available to Mrs. Walton's
our education channels. On three occasions we combined the Consumer Inf and Education exhibits to stretch our dollars and to reach new audiences
f and non-science oriented publics. At the suggestion of the Consumer
we published a manual of simple chemical demonstrations suitable for the general
and have another manual of simple food experiments in the rough manuscript staga.
MCA's education exhibit provides us the opportunity to present all our programs and
at one regional and three national education conferences. This year we have
six exhibits in all sections of the U.S. and seek similar contacts with
educators.
The subcommittees also coordinated their efforts in presenting the seminar
this morning.
The of electronic media on this generation indicates that the printed word
is no longer the only effective avenue of communication. An experimental tape
for radio, classroom or private listening was produced. clips, slide
to you for future budget allocations.
Relations Committee to study the negative image of industry among youth and make
recommendations on what industry can do to stem the tide of unfair criticism which, as
you know, often creates the unfavorable climate for adverse and restrictive legislation.
Our work, like public relations, is never ending. There is no such thing as a stable or
never stands still and n ver is quite the same at any one point of reference.
CMA 036219
about brings ma to the and of my report.
Before I would like to thank you, the member companies who are represented
on Committee and the staff of the MCA, for the strong support given the
The Committee membership is listed in the new MCA directory. The individuals named
the MCA staff form a team of highly motivated, dedicated, competent professionals
of varied disciplines giving great breadth of experience to our work. From a purely
this brief report, I have listed only the highlights of our problems, accomplishments
future plans. I am sure that you have many other questions related to our work. I
I thank you.
NA
