address, scheduled for January 27.
House Speaker Jim (D-TX) has said that Congress could
within a month clear legislation reauthorizing the Clean Water Act,
which President Reagan killed by pocket veto last year.
It is
committees to investigate the Iran arms-contra affair, introduce
trade and begin tackling the Administration's record $1.02
trillion 1988 budget proposal. The Administration has estimated the
deficit at about $150 billion, while the Congressional Budget Office
and analysts have estimated it at closer to $170 billion. House
Budget Committee William H. Gray III has said that to
meet goals, Congress may be forced to consider tax increases,
the nation's tariff system and increasing surcharges on some imported
products.
Other that will confront the 100th Congress and which are
acid legislation, product liability, and emphasis on work place
concerns - an area where labor shows signs of greater political
activity. Trade reform legislation, another priority of the new
Congress, will most likely be protectionist and CMA is prepared to
numerous facets of existing trade law.
the current agenda and the usual uncertainties of a new
session, 1987 will be another busy and difficult year for the Congress.
CMA

Federal Regulatory Agencies
Its intention to use Superfund monies to fund
activities required by Title III of the Superfund Amendments and
press have already spoken out against bleeding the Superfund
to carry out activities required by other statutes. Title III is in
fact a separate Act from CERCLA, much like the Clean Air Act or Clean
under Title III, but failed provide any funds to conduct
year and the Senate almost did, there are some
import tax.
negotiate the Multilateral Trade Negotiations
Whether can, or whether he will, work with the Congress on an
for the House and Congress and the result may be a veto battle.
by participants. Not much progress can be announced in the
wants no tariff cuts on products proved to be import sensitive.
Attempts to get legislative language to this effect are underway.
The U.S./Canada negotiations toward a free trade arrangement is
moving along though with difficulties constantly appearing. Canadian
officials are hard-pressed by opponents of an agreement. Pressure
grows for settlement by late in 1987 to beat the President's
chemical trade balance in the period 1980-1985 has reversed. The
estimate is for a 7.6 billion dollar balance, a 5 percent increase
over the year before. Most of the credit goes to a weaker dollar.
The International Affairs Group has undertaken an effort to
ensure cooperation among chemical trade associations
Several foreign trade associations have expressed interest
in maintaining closer contact with and the new effort will
2
CMA 038744
to increase the IAG's visibility as a contact and advocate for
the U.S. chemical industry on an international scale. The
that interaction with our foreign counterparts may profitably
be made on the emerging global issues affecting health, safety and the
States
During last two months of 1986, less than six state
state government activities of major significance to the chemical
Without doubt, the most significant event was the passage of the
37%. The industry coalition will remain intact to address the
when the Governor must publish a list of affected chemicals. On
March 1, 1988 the warning provisions go into effect and on November 1,
1989 the discharge prohibitions become effective. After a thorough
legal review of all possible options, the coalition decided to delay
any legal attempts to postpone or to alter the law until after its
The CMA State Affairs Committee has established a special ad hoc
group to help develop a response to this law in California as well as
its potential spread to other states.
State legislative action will reach a peak in the next couple of
months, as all but a couple of states will be in session. Tort
Insurance will continue be a major issue among the
states 1987. some sort of tort legislation was passed

uphold Pennsylvania Law, there was an appeal to the
United Supreme Court. Until the court decides whether or not
to the case, there is an injunction against the
of the as it applies to manufacturers.
Thanks part to the efforts of the New Jersey Chemical Industry
Council, the Council of State Governments (CSG) deferred action on the
possible adoption of the New Jersey Environmental Responsibility
Cleanup Act (ECRA) as model legislation. However, some form of
model legislation will be adopted by in 1987 and CMA's Work
Group continues to work towards a favorable model.
plant safety will al3s continue to be a major issue
Management Work Group has developed an issue analysis document that
was recently distributed to member companies and state CICs.
3
summary, 1987 should be a very active year for the chemical
at the state level.
In the elections, the public
again strongly for increased environmental protection by state
They also elected a majority of Democrats to the extent
that 67 out 98 state houses are now controlled by Democrats. This
will be an increasingly formidable task this year in light of member
company state affairs staff reductions.
Media
substantially accounting for nearly 12 percent of the news in major
newspapers and on network television. Recent Iran/Contra
has interrupted the growth in news but it remains a
substantial part of coverage.
Over past several years coverage of news was
essentially positive. Business was seen as offering an alternative
problem
setting a dark background for legislative and regulatory
depletion, water contamination, and charges of poor management have
led the charge. The rush of year-end takeovers accelerated the level
of in coverage.
Ivan and the fallout from the investigation,
for many Americans deep suspicions about Wall Street and, by
extension, about ethics. Even a baby food manufacturer was
charged dilution of its product. Several members of the chemical
were charged with illegal product formulation.
Add a lack of trust in the President's handling of Iran and
have again surfaced.
water issues have been slow to develop in the U.S., the
h avy of contamination problems in Switzerland have raised
public awareness. Even a minor event in this country could bring
issues Congress.
Finally, even though editorial opinion in California newspapers
was opposed to Proposition 65 (29 no, 1 yes), popular
press was just as overwhelmingly in support of it. The
stars' press caravan organized by Jane Fonda offered
and media events and worked well in gaining popular votes.
The tactic will be less usable in other states.
The public opinion polls show most Americans today believe
are more concerned than they used to be about waste
action to solve the problems. By the highest record in the
4
Reports history 60 percent of Americans are calling for
ISSUES STATUS
1. Developments and Response
TSCA Reauthorization.
amended, other than the asbestos in schools requirements
adopted in the 99th Congress.
While other various legislative changes have been proposed in
past years, none have been acted upon by Congress. Expenditures under
the Act have not been reauthorized since 1983, as the Agency has
relied the appropriations process for funding. Consequently,
TSCA reauthorization hearings may be ahead of us in 1987. However, it
is too to predict whether and when. Congressman Jim Florio's
staff has indicated TSCA will be on his priority list, but his
In June Federal policies
Office Science and Technology Policy and five federal agencies.
(TSCA) and the Federal Insecticide Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
CMA's comments stated that adequate authority exists under
TSCA to control the commercial uses of biotechnology, and
recommendations for avoiding unreasonable burdens on
aspects of EPA's approach are overly stringent and depart from prior
under TSCA.
EPA's schedule is to publish proposed rules under the
in late 1987. The Biotechnology Task Group will continue
monitor the development of the proposed rules and comments as
of Information at EPA. Members of the Information
Task Group met EPA staff from the
5
and Resources Management; Policy, Planning and
the collection and management of health and environmental
data in chemicals.
IMTG's for improved management at the
Agency
The EPA Administrator should mandate an Agencywide policy
its commitment information management and
Agency be created to administer such a policy.
A separate line item for management should be
created in the Agency's budget.
The will work EPA staft during 1987 on the issues of
of information requests by the Agency; promoting the use of
TOSCATS (EPA computer data, base) by industry; sharing of expertise
issues.
Affairs Task Group (EXATG) met industry liaison staff at EPA and
OSHA to discuss the chemical industry's communications with the
and key issues of importance to industry and the agencies.
Testing Consent Agreements Under TSCA. The first meeting of a
1986, discuss procedures governing testing consent agreements under
Section 4 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (51 Fed. Reg.
23706, seq.. June 30, 1986). The group was formed as a result of
a CMA Dr. John A. Moore, EPA Assistant Administrator for
and Toxic Substances, in late October, 1986, on
20 meeting agreed that industry and EPA could achieve better
Joint industry/EPA meetings to resolve issues relevant to
testing consent agreements will continue in 1987.
Risk Evaluation of New Chemicals. The Health and Safety
and Reporting Task Group has developed a
companies to submit risk evaluation to EPA with their
6
to be held in the first quarter of 1987,

meetings were held in December, 1986, in Lyon to evaluate
the activity of 200+ chemicals/exposures. CMA was represented
by Dale W. Matheson, Ph.D., of Stauffer Chemical Company. Richard H.
McKee, Ph.D., of Exxon Biomedical Sciences was chosen as Dr. Matheson's
In a to the CMA Work Group that has managed
the industry/IARC interface during 1986, Dr. Matheson noted
IARC's reception of industry positions, and adherence to
at which the same group of chemicals will be evaluated for
Chemical Company, has been designated as the Observer at these
Dr. McKee of Exxon will again serve as the alternate. The
CMA Hazard Assessment Task Group is preparing Drs. Moolenaar and McKee
for the meetings by assembling and consolidating member company
reviews on specific chemicals.
The paper entitled "Review and Recommendations For the Revision
of the Preamble and Criteria of the Monographs"
carcinogenicity evaluations.
System Developmental Toxicity Evaluations Based on Considerations
of and Effect Relationships," by E. Marshall Johnson, Ph.D.,
of Jefferson Medical College, has been accepted for publication in
Teratology. CMA's Health and Safety Committee commissioned the
paper to help establish reasonable, scientific guidelines for priority
in developmental toxicity testing. The Hazard Assessment Task
Group distributed the manuscript to member companies for review.
In the 99th Congress, H.R.
vote.
It was out of the full Education and Labor Committee
by 20-8 (all the Committee Democrats and one Republican voting for
It did reach the House floor in part because of our
community efforts to educate Members of the House as to the
flaws the measure, and in part because of a crowded end-of-session
7
in fact, has already set up a state planning commission and
with Mr. Fred Loy, President of the LCA, serving as
of the commission.
represents about 50 industry trade groups, recently expanded the role
of its CAER Task Group. The task group, chaired by was set up to
assist the CCAE participants in CAER their
Now the task group has the additional responsibility of
joint CCAE workshops on Title III and, as necessary, coordinating an
approach to EPA rulemaking under this Act.
our support for the Community Awareness and Emergency Response
program as developed by the Chemical Manufacturers
Association. AMA's decision to endorse the CAER program was
unanimously adopted during a recent meeting of the board of
directors. You and your staff are to be commended for your initiative
and professional implementation of this concept which will be of
well as the chemical industry. The CAER program becomes even more
Title III notification requirements."
3. Aspects
officials (the Brazilian chemical manufacturers
association) have invited representatives to meet them on
3, 1987, in Sao Paulo, Brazil. CMA officials are also
working to arrange meetings at that time with local Brazilian agency
officials. The purpose of these meetings is discuss the CAER and

4. Activity
letters to CMA executive contacts, company CAER
This program helps communities participating in CAER-type
to receive recognition for their planning efforts. The
consists of two awards. The level one award, which is a
and framed certificate, is awarded to communities that
can they have formed a CAER planning committee. The level two
award, which is an oak and bronze plaque, is awarded to communitias
that have completed the CAER milestones.
9
the attention of Members of Congress its use of the new
cleanup standards at a Superfund site. EPA is attempting to provide
contend the new law does not allow that flexibility. We can expect
that Congress will conduct oversight hearings on this issue. Also,
there been reports that EPA may be Superfund money for the
of Title III, the section.
and said that it should receive funding through the
trust money would not be used for Title III. CMA sent a letter
31, 1986) to EPA Administrator Lee Thomas expressing our
his attempt to use Superfund money to implement Title
III.
the implementation process.
313 Notification CMA submitted comments on an
EPA draft of a notification form to implement the reporting
of Section 313 of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization. The final notification will be the basis for
reporting requirements under Title III. CMA's comments
did raise concerns the disclosure of estimate
calculations, the need for da concentrations, trade secret
designation.
3. Development, Analytical and Program Activities
workshop that focuses on the important new requirements of the new
be on January 28 and 29, 1987, in New Orleans, LA, will address
the clean up provisions and the new Title III Emergency
workshop ia designed provide an overview of the new legal
outline the new requirements for companies, and highlight
4. and Related Legal Activities
at the first meeting of the ad hoc group on Superfund/insurance
the Office of General Counsel has filed amicus briefs in two
Important Insurance coverage cases. The issues in these cases concern
when "occurrence" occurs for purposes of environmental liabilities
under general liability policies and whether
policies.
11
CMA 038753
policies. The insurance industry has apparently formed a corporation
to act as the funding source and coordinating body to pursue its
In response, the Office of General
Counsel is seeking the participation of other interested associations
to respond on behalf of insured companies in some of these
cases.
Regulatory Litigation. The Office of General Counsel is
In the National Contingency Plan (NCP)
litigation, CMA and the other petitioners are meeting the
Superfund reauthorization and the forthcoming revision of the NCP
In the other suit, CMA has challenged the
final natural resource damage assessment regulations promulgated by
the Department of Interior. Several states and one environmental
group have also challenged the regulations. The litigation is in a
of a briefing schedule by the court.
Implementation Activities. As part of its Superfund
effort, the Office of General counsel will be working
Ad Hoc Superfund Counsel Group to pursue ways to improve the
process under Superfund. This group includes Superfund
from member companies who are interested in sharing concerns
and settlement policies and can serve as a resource for
CMA activities in these areas.
The wrote an article for the EPA Journal on the
effects of the amended RCRA and the reauthorized Superfund
laws on waste-disposing industries.
Hazardous Waste Management
The Conservation and Recovery Act is scheduled to be
evaluate Environmental Protection Agency's progress.
The RCRA Regulations Task Groups continue be very active
In for the 100th Congress, both the
and Government Relations Task Groups have been discussing
that they believe need to be addressed in the RCRA
of potential concern to the chemical Industry. These issues
will be used as a starting point for discussion of possible
legislative changes.
12
actively communicating with members of Congress and Hill
staff who will be working on RCRA issues in the next Congress.
hearings will be held throughout 1987/88 on various aspects
of
The task group will he conducting two important activities
in 1987. First, they will conduct a seminar/briefing for CMA
and outlook for legislative changes in 1987/88.
The second task group activity would be a briefing by CMA for key
Hill staff on RCRA implementation and its impact on the chemical
some of the technical problems the chemical industry faces and
how perceive of the 1984 RCRA Amendments.
RCRA oversight hearings can be anticipated throughout 1987/88.
the reauthorization.
and Congressman Jim Florio to be the most active
The debate will evolve slowly, the oversight hearings

Waste Minimization Program.
The Resource Conservation and
Act (RCRA) requires that companies establish voluntary waste
In RCRA is scheduled to be reauthorized. At that time.
consider legislating mandatory waste reduction requirements.
member companies have a well-established waste
waste minimization work group is developing a plan for
member companies, the Congress and EPA, and the
