proceeds, the reforms agreed upon should actively promote disease
prevention and involve employers and employees in prevention
initiatives.
Federalization;
The creation of a new federal occupational
disease compensation system is not warranted.
Delivery System;
Occupational disease victims should be
equitably compensated within existing state workers' compensation
systems.
Exclusive Remedy;
Workers' compensation must be the exclusive
remedy for disability or death caused by workplace disease. A
workers' compensation claim must be pursued prior to any effort to
seek tort recovery against a party and that recovery should
be reduced by the current value of compensation benefits
including medical care benefits. Employers' subrogation rights and
third-party rights - contribution or indemnity should be
abolished. Workers' compensation reform should be consistent and
integrated product liability endorsed by the chemical
industry. It is appropriate to explore proposed mechanisms
eliminate tort suits altogether in workplace disease claims through
manufacturer participation in workers' compensation benefit
programs.
Eligibility;
Disability or death attributable to an occupational
disease should be compensated but eligibility decisions must be
based upon established and scientific standards with
sufficient flexibility Co encompass the extraordinary case.
Causation;
Occupational causation should be determined by
occupational disease experts established, scientific
criteria davalopcd by scientists in light of the best information
available. Presumptions and arbitrary legal devices are
incompatible science-based standards and are
inappropriate.
Multiple Causation: A disease traced to multiple causes is not
compensated unless its occupational origins are medically
significant.
Statute Of Limitations; A claim should be filed within one year
from the date of actual or imputed discovery that an occupational
disease has been manifested or within one year from death due to an
occupational disease.
Notice, And Definitional Limitations;
Arbitrary notice of claim
requirements and unscientific or unfair definitional limitations
which preclude recovery in occupational disease claims should be
repealed.
Disability/Death:
An employer should be liable for disability
compensation only to the extent that the disability is caused by
occupational factors; death benefits are appropriate only if death
was significantly related to or materially caused by occupational
disease. Disability and death inquiries are properly made by
medical experts.
Benefits: Cash benefits paid should be computed in light of actual
wages lost, subject to statutory maxima and minima. In latent
disease cases, benefits should not be unreasonably low solely
because the last exposure occurred years earlier. Medical care
should be available without arbitrary restriction.
Retirees: Disease compensation benefits are properly reduced only
by Social Security old age benefits.
Liability:
Disease compensation benefits are properly paid by
the last employer the worker to a hazardous substance or
condition.
Funding: Benefits liabilities must be insurable through existing
workers' compensation Insurance mechanisms.
Retroactivity: Occupational disease compensation system reforms
should be prospective. However, any retroactive application of
must carry back exclusive remedy protections if benefit
obligations are extended to cover past incidences of disease.
Alternatives And Options Under Review
At this time there is no apparent need to support or propose
substantial changes in the occupational disease compensation
systems of the states. Current recommended options are:
a
o
Take no action to change existing systems;
o
Support modest state system in statutes of
limitations, medical causation, etc.
o
Continue monitor ongoing efforts pursued by others; develop
and refine CMA positions and alternatives.
o
Oppose federal involvement in occupational disease
If more extensive occupational disease reform proposals gain
momentum, and there is a likelihood chat some will in the next year
or so, the development and consideration of creative alternatives
may be essential a realization of chemical industry objectives.
A number of promising alternatives and options have surfaced within
the Committee and are the subject of continuing discussion. These,
include:
CMA 038184

o
A proposal to combine a disease prevention and health
surveillance system with traditional state workers'
compensation programs through a scries of economic incentives
and disincentives which are designed to encourage employer and
employee participation in disease prevention initiatives, to
reward employee participation increased benefits, and
Justify employer participation with improved protections from
tort suit. Other benefits which might accrue in this approach
include lover transaction costs, better medical records
compiled by employer-selected medical specialists for use If
disease occurs, and an Increased likelihood of early
detection, prompt treatment, and a return of the worker to
gainful employment.
o
Proposals which may facilitate the integration of all workers'
compensation and tort liabilities which may arise out of
occupational exposures to hazardous substances, a view
toward limiting chemical manufacturing Industry liabilities
arising from workplace disease.
o
Proposals to seek federal health agency participation in the
development of medical standards for use in claims.
ACTION:
o
Approve the recommendation to amend Section 104(i) to
provide for more site specific health studies and medical
monitoring.
o
Review other options for waste site compensation and
principles for workplace disease compensation.
CMA
V
CMA 038186
F
THE TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
The Technical Director's report highlights accomplishments and
activities in its advocacy of prime issues.
COMMERCIAL OF CHEMICALS
e
Substances (OTS) is developing a proposed rule that will impose
requirements on research and development activities for commercial
complete the final rule for premanufacture notification The
proposed rule will include provisions for recordkeeping, hazard analysis,
and risk notification of R&D chemicals. The Chemical Regulations Advisory
Committee is working OTS staff to ensure that the requirements
of this rule do not have an adverse Impact on innovation. OTS expects to
publish the proposed rule in the fall of this year.
e
EPA to create a special provision for shipments of R&D chemicals subject to
the TSCA Section 13 Import certification rule. The Section 13 rule
requires that importers of chemical shipments certify either that the
shipment is not subject to TSCA or that the shipment is in compliance with
TSCA and all rules or orders under TSCA. For many shipments of R&D
substances, the certification of TSCA compliance Is not possible because
the identity of the substance is unknown and, in fact, the substance is
Imported for analysis and identification. Even where the identity of
the substance is known, the Import certification rule imposes burdensome
requirements on the thousands of shipments Imported for R&D purposes. The
proposal emphasizes that R&D chemicals are used under the supervision
of individuals that are trained in safe handling procedures which minimize
the risk from exposure.
t
submitted a statement to the Senate Subcommittee on Toxic Substances and
Environmental Oversight, The statement presented CMA's view of the
report Toxicity Testing: Strategies Determine Needs and Priorities,
which was the subject of an April 10 Senate hearing. The statement
emphasized that the design of the study the conclusions that can
be drawn from the study. In particular, the statement points out that the
study did not Include many ongoing or recently completed testing
activities, such as those at in response to TSCA Section 4, or the
testing that individual companies sponsor. The Senate may use the
study to justify the testing of all new chemicals.
e
submitted a statement to ATSAC on confidential
The statement responds to 11 questions on CBI presented to ATSAC by
Dr. John Moore, Assistant Administrator for Pesticides and Toxic
Substances. Dr. Moore is seeking ATSAC's advice on confidentiality issues'
so that he can consider changes to the procedures used for handling
confidential information submitted under TSCA.
CMA 038186

CRAC's Risk Analysis Task Group is planning a on error
propagation in risk analysis. The will identify the. specific
nature of the problem of overly conservative assumptions and suggest
ways of more realistic methods.
CRAC's Impact Analysis Task Croup is writing a paper on the chemical
activities to reduce risk. The paper will be based on an
industry survey completed last year, and will identify for the public what
the Industry has been doing to reduce risks to health, safety, and the
environment.
I




BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL
BUTADIENE - The Environmental Protection Agency initiated regulatory
action on 1,3-butadiene under Section 6 of TSCA. The Agency detprmined
that the chemical may present an unreasonable risk. EPA is seeking
to appropriate control measures. Five areas have
been designated in which is sought; I) health effects;
2) manufacturing, processing, use and disposal; 3) human exposures; 4)
appropriate controls and their costs; and, 5) substitutes.
CRESOLS - EPA has proposed that the cresols industry test various cresols
for potential health effects. Cresols manufacturers asked to sec up a
program on these chemicals. Accordingly, the Special Programs Division
convened an exploratory meeting and approved a tentative budget to cover
the initiation phase of the program.
The Program Panel will work EPA to develop a reasonable and sufficient
testing program. The Panel Intends to evaluate the Agency's proposed
testing requirements in conjunction additional data in order to
develop a reasonable testing program.
DICHLORIDE - On April 23, 1984, EPA published its draft
Health Assessment Document on EDC. The Panel has hired an outside
consultant to prepare comments on EPA's draft Document. The comments will
be filed by June 22, 1984.
- EPA released an external review draft of a Hazard
Assessment Document on on April 23, 1984. Comments are to be submitted
by June 22 and EPA Science Advisory Board hearings are tentatively
scheduled for August. The Ethylene Oxide Industrial Council (EOIC)
Scientific Committee will develop comments and plans to form a Science
Panel consisting of members and consultants for the hearing.
i
1
i
I
I

i
FLUOROCARBONS - On April 4, 1984, the Panel submitted comments to the U.S.
Department of State on the U.S Position Paper on protection of the ozone
layer.

The Panel continued its 1985 budget review in preparation for the
Management Briefing in June.

f
METHYLENEDIANILINE - The Panel submitted to EPA and OSHA the
final report on its "Survey of Uses of
The survey accounted for approximately 85 percent of the 1982 uses


I
CMA 038187

NAPHTHENATE METAL SOAPS - The Interagency Testing Committee (ITC) in May
1983, recommended EPA consider requiring manufaccurers and processors
of calcium, cobale, and lead naphehenaCes conduce chemical face, health
effects, and environmental effects testing on those three chemicals under
the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). The Naphthenate Metal Soaps
Program Panel and Shell Oil Company provided production, use, exposure and
health effects to EPA and concluded that, in view of ongoing
research on chose chemicals, no additional testing is necessary. On May
11, 1984, EPA agreed the industry position and signed a Federal
Register notice stating that it will not initiate rulemaking under Section
NICKEL-CONTAININC CATALYSTS - Manufacturers of nickel-containing catalysts
asked CMA to establish an advocacy program to respond to potential
regulatory activities within various government agencies. Accordingly, the
Special Programs Division convened an exploratory meeting which resulted in
a decision to form a Panel. A proposed one-year budget was approved.
The Panel will represent the Interests of catalysts
producers, adopting and conveying advocacy positions, as appropriate. To
support its positions, the Panel will collect necessary to
assess safety, environmental and health issues.
POLYCHLORINATED - The PCB Panel submitted comments in
response to EPA's Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in the risks posed
from fires involving electrical transformers containing PCBs.
TITANIUM - The CMA Titanium Dioxide Program Panel met with the
National Cancer Institute on April 13, 1984, discuss NCI plans to
conduct an epidemiology study of titanium dioxide workers. NCI does not
plan to undertake any study on the chemical but is merely gathering
on various chemicals to develop its priorities for future
projects. The Panel will continue monitor activities of government
agencies and other research organizations Interested in epidemiologic or
toxicologic studies.
CHLORIDE - On January 9, 1984, the Vinylldene Chloride
Program Panel filed written comments with EPA on the Agency's draft Health
Assessment Document on VDC, The written comments were followed by oral
presentation the Science Advisory Board (SAB) on April 27, 1984. In
addition recognizing industry's concerns, SAB has raised its own issues
and has asked EPA to respond to various scientific issues in the next draft
document.
EFFECTIVE WASTE HANDLING AND DISPOSAL
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON LIABILITY AND DAMAGE
representative vas a advisor the United States Delegation to an
International Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference that opened on
April 30, 1984. The Conference addressed revisions to the International
Convention on Liability for Oil Pollution Damage (1969); the
International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for
CMA 038188

I
Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage (1971); and a proposed nsv
Intsrnational Convsntion on Liability and Compansation in Connection
the Carriage of Noxious and Hazardous Substances by Sea.
PHASE II RCRA IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS LITIGATION SETTLEMENT The
Environmental Management Committee (EMC) at its April 18, 1984, meeting
voted to authorize CMA entering into a proposed settlement agreement to
resolve AISI v. EPA. All the regulations have been satisfactorily resolved
or mooted.
1984, the Environmental Management Committee (EMC) covered a wide spectrum
of environmental Issues. Specific attention was provided the
groundwater issue and the need to develop a comprehensive strategy, and
environmental data relevancy for all media (i.e., sampling, analytical,
interpretation, etc.).
Environmental Management Committee, an ad hoc groundwater strategy group
was organized to develop a comprehensive strategy for addressing
groundwater Issues. Meetings were held on May 4 and May 17, 1984, with
staff and member company representatives of EMC, its Cask groups, GRC, SAC
and CRAC's Risk Assessment Task Group.
provide more definitive evidence to EPA that the agency's existing
groundwater sampling/analysis methodologies (i.e., are
scientifically Inappropriate for purposes of determining compliance.
is operational supplemental data continuing to be entered into the
system. The program has been expanded to handle data on groundwater,
drinking water, and
Task Group is conducting a peer review of two EPA Superfund guidance
Effects Modeling at Superfund Sites.
EMC SEMIANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL UPDATE The Environmental Management
Committee conducted its Environmental Update on May 22-23,
1984, in Washington, D.C. The one and one-half day program, attended by
approximately 130 persona. Included comprehensive discussions on all
environmental issues and how they Impact on chemical industry operations.
The luncheon speaker was F. Henry Habicht, II, Assistant Attorney General
for Land and Natural Resources. He addressed general environmental Issues
and offered soma candid observations on enforcement at the Federal and
state level.
INCIDENTAL CHEMICAL EXPOSURE AND PUBLIC HEALTH
The Chemical Manufacturers Association and the Environmental Defense Fund
will jointly sponsor a on the Health Effects of Industrial Waste
Sites at the AAAS annual meeting. The will identify what is
CMA 038189

known and vhac la not known about this controversial subject, and will
suggest scientific ways to fill data gaps.
The Universities Associated for Research and Education in Pathology
study of health effects associated with waste sites is on schedule.
is considering having the draft study "peer-reviewed" prior to its release
for public comment. Such a review would move the release date to early
August.
CLEAN WATER
met EPA on May 30. 1984. discuss EPA's pretreatment program. The
group discussed: interim recommendations by EPA's
Implementation Review Task Force, removal credits workability, and general
policies and longer range programs.
requested from the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO) Information and
data concerning the organic chemicals category of the GAO report entitled
"Wastewater Dischargers Are Not Complying EPA Pollution Control
Data on the frequency of noncompliance and the criteria with
which compliance was are specific concerns.
Management Committee's Water Policy Task Group has prepared a national
pretreatment removal credits amendment. These materials are designed for
use by Government Relations in its advocacy on the Clean Water Act.
CLEAN AIR
Management Committee at its April 18, 1984. meeting voted to authorize CMA
entering into a proposed settlement agreement to resolve CMA's challenge of
EPA's new source performance standard for fugitive emission leaks and the
use of flare technology to control emissions.
Committee's Process Emission Regulations Task Group is working EPA's
Office of Quality Planning and Standards in its reevaluation of a
national strategy for regulating hazardous air pollutants.
OCCUPATIONAL. SAFETY AND HEALTH
CMA congratulated OSKA on Improvements in their second draft of a proposed
standard for confined space entry. Nevertheless, we suggested technical
changes in the latest draft. These dealt with definitions of "entry",
"hazardous atmosphere", "inerting", "solo entry", and other terms. We also
commented on the proposed requirement for listing, on the permit, names of
all who enter a confined space, reliance on outside help rather than
in-house rescue teams, and ocher aspects of the proposal.
The first symposium of a series an "Hazards Communication: Training and
Educating the Worker", held in Houston on April 24, was well received. In
response to a suggestion from the audience, the program for future symposia
CMA 038190

in this series was ravisad placa mora amphasis on the OSHA Hazards
Communication Rule's training requirements. The next will be in
Philadelphia. June 14, and the last one in San Francisco, September 25.
SAFE AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS
e
was prepared and mailed to Industry representatives for their
consideration. Industry interest in this docket has been very low even
Chough elimination of excess reporting requirements could improve public
reaction to hazardous material transportation safety.
The DOT/MTB hearing regarding the use of Emergency Response Cuidebooks and
Material Safety Data Sheets during transportation generated great interest
in both the carrier and shipper industries. All carriers and shippers who
testified at the May 2 hearing opposed reliance on MSDSs during
transportation. Comments are due by June 26, 1984.
e
their compromise solution on tank car compensation to the Joint Negotiating
Committee over CMA's objections. The proposal reduces by perhaps $50
million, the compensation that car providers receive from the railroads.
The reduction in car compensation would be, primarily, a reduction in
compensation member companies. Our Car Compensation Subcommittee
met representatives of on May 23, 1984, to attempt to resolve our
differences and improve our negotiating position.
Task Group to prepare comments on several rules proposed by the Federal
Maritime Commission to implement the new shipping act. The subjects
CMA will address Include service contracts, time/volume rates. Independent
action, loyalty contracts, and processing of agreements.
On May 9, 1984, filed comments with the supporting its proposal to
prohibit Philippine flag vessels from entering U.S. ports. This is a means
of retaliation the Philippine cargo reservation which has caused member
companies to shift 50-73X of their cargo from their preferred flag
carriers and to endure administrative burdens and service delays.
the Canadian Chemical Producers' Association and the Transport Canada
officials to learn more about the TEAP and CANUTEC operations. He also
discussed and obtained general agreement that extension of the 800
service in Canada would be beneficial to both countries.
The Emergency Response Work Group is continuing its meeting with
associations representing emergency response organizations. The objective
of these meetings is to learn what kinds of training and technical
assistance can best be provided by the chemical Industry to the first
responder at a hazardous material incident.

ENERGY AND FEEDSTOCK ISSUES
held May 10 ac CMA. Congressman Jack R. Fields (R-TX) discussed the
uncertain prospects for H.R. 4277 voted out of che House Committee on
Energy and Commerce. The CMA Energy Committee recommended urging the House
Rules Committee to oppose granting a rule on H.R. 4277. We believe it is
an unsatisfactory vehicle for Natural Gas Policy Act amendments.
Commissioner Oliver G. Richard, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
also discussed Che priorities and efforts to enhance competition in
natural gas markets. He stressed che Importance of addressing potential
regulatory impact on residential and commercial consumers.
CMA submitted written comments to the U.S. Department of Energy in response
to their public inquiry in connection a report to Congress on the
Status of Natural Gas Markets. restated advocacy for deregulation of
all wellhead ceiling prices by a date certain, removal of gas market
restrictions, and che need for more efficacious contract carriage programs
equal access for all consumers to all categories of gas. also
believes that there is minimal potential for a price fly-up in 1983 with
partial deregulation of natural gas under current law.
e
NEW ENERGY AGENCY DATA COLLECTION EFFORTS CMA Joined an Ad
Hoc Task Force of the Business Advisory Council on Federal Reports to
oppose a new data collection proposal initiation by the Energy
Administration Other Task Force members Include: The Aluminum
Association of America, che American Iron and Steel Institute, the American
Paper Institute, the American Petroleum Institute, the American Textile
Manufacturers Institute, the Council of Industrial Boiler Owners, the
Industrial Oil Consumers Group, the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers
Association, the National Association of Manufacturers, the Society of the
Plastics Industry, and che Chamber of Commerce of the United States. Last
CMA submitted comments to the EIA and Office of Management Budget.
in a meeting of the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating
Issued as a voluntary technical guide so that chemical Industry management
e
voted to approve UL 783(Electric
038192

r
Electrical Task Group Members assisted the PCB Program Panel
in a CMA response to Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
A group of the Electrical Task Group prepared additional comments
on proposed Electrical Standards for Construction.
Electronics Standards Board approved a one-year extension of two
declined membership on the UL Intrinsically Safe Equipment for
Approximately ISO member company
