exhibit
STAFF
January 1973
by
William Driver
TAX REFORM...hearings before the House Ways and
mittee likely begin early in the next session
As long as last June, that Committee's
ority.
Means
of
Wilbur
one
Less certain is the nature and scope of such hearings.
sweeping
The is expected to introduce its tax reform
proposal in order to take the initiative.
Comments by
various Department officials indicate the
tion will emphasize tax simplification rather than substantive
reform.
Treasury Secretary Edwin S. Cohen stated recently
that he expected Congress to take under consideration the Asset
the tax on tax preference income.
It is also expected
Congressional consideration of trade reform legislation ahead of
and Committee. Mr. Mills is reported to have indicated
that he put trade legislation before tax if President
should request it. We understand, however, that the
has not yet made a decision on either the nature of
trade be proposed by the Administration, or on
under leadership.
duties, Secretary Shultz will take charge of overall
economic policy.
restore Department of State to some eminence in trade policy
matters.
No have been indicated so far in the Office of the
Special Representative.
However, the President has
accepted r signations from a number of International Economic
Policy Council staff memb rs, presently headed by Peter Flanigan.
CWA

January
Page 2
9
MCA and other intervenors with the Interstate Commerce Commission
Resist of base classification values (BCV's) ,
the basic system and claiming that a single
trending factor is inappropriate,
Criticized our proposal to raise the value ceiling to
$40,000, contending that linings and special materials
relate to the "package" function of a tank car, and
legal objections ICC's power to prescribe
allowances.
Therefore, permit
evaluation and response, additional time to comment was
in our behalf and that of the American Petroleum
Institute, car companies and other supporters.
Four
weeks were granted; reply statements are now due January 8, 1973.
and Survey
a statistical study designed to collect pertinent information
trial workers. Accompanied by management representatives, NIOSH
to trade name compounds.
the Institute's
goal is to develop on exposures to specific
for each trade name item reported to
them.
To this they propose to send a letter
and a (one for each trade name product) to about
Response would be mandatory.
There obvious concern that trade secret
might from the NIOSH files.
views the need for assurances of confidentiality
beyond those already expressed in the Occupational Safety and
Health Act.
I
036246
Report
1973
Page 3
THE in a recent meeting in
Geneva of the United Nations1 Committee of Experts on the Trans
port Dangerous Goods.
Dr. C. Boyd Shaffer, Director of Toxicology, American Cyanamid
taken at this meeting will result in publication
the classification, packaging and labeling of hazardous
materials in international trade.
t
THE offered recommendations the
Environmental Protection Agency on the professional
deemed necessary to membership on Effluent
Standards and Water Quality Advisory Committee.
We also offered to suggest candidates suiting these
tions .
in development of effluent guidelines for the categories of
for their interim use in drafting discharge permits for
who will recommend a basis for establishing Best
Control Technology Currently Available, Best
able Technology Economically Achievable, and National Standards
It is anticipated
that individual plants judged to be "exemplary" will provide the
base for the required levels of technological performance.

Report
January 1973
Page 4
THE established eight task
to deal with particular aspects of regulations under the
1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
(1) regulations relating to State discharge permit
document relating pretreatment standards for discharges
A SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE...task group and other
company representatives are reviewing an EPA draft
that agency in the development of ensuing Federal regula­
DR. HERMAN S. BLOCH...Associate
Chemical Society's Board of
Bloch has been one of the prime catalysts for MCA/ACS
collaboration in such EAC projects as the "Chemistry In Action"
Open-Ended Experiments, Awards and Interface Conferences.
He served as EAC from

