Exhibit F
TO THE BOARD
CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION

GARY A. SUNSHINE. CHAIRMAN
DRUG, AND COSMETIC CHEMICALS COMMITTEE
MAY 11,
1976
It is a pleasure to have the opportunity to report to you
on the activities of the FDCC Committee and to share you
thoughts that have grown out of my association the work of
the Committee during the past year.
As you know, the objectives and the function of the FDCC
Committee are as follows:
"To advise thp Board of Directors concerning
chemicals used in foods, drugs, and cosmetics, and in
accord Association policies and procedures,
develop positions on legislation and regulations affect­
such chemicals, formulate principles and encourage
technical development pertinent their use and
cooperate with other organizations having parallel
interests
Considering the rapid rate of developments in the past few
years, these responsibilities represent no small task.
The activities
of the Committee during the past year have been directed largely
toward consolidating and implementing organizational improvements
initiated during the preceding year.
The organizational structure
that has been established consists essentially of a legislative and
regulatory subcommittee, a scientific subcommittee, and a commun­
ications subcommittee, which are designed to closely follow develop­
ments in their respective areas.
The subcommittees, through their
respective and the steering subcommittee, function by
and referring well-developed reports and proposals to
the full Committee for review and action.
This structural concept
takes advantage of the available manpower by establishing a welldefined division of the work areas; eliminating repetitious meetings,
and concentrating on concrete proposals for the basis
of Committee action.
Task force units specific areas of assign­
ment within these broad lines of division have also been used to
advantage.
CMA 036991
the past year, for example, the Committee prepared
and submitted extensive comments on the FDA proposed Administrative
Practices and Procedures regulations,
of particular importance to
MCA was the FDA position stated in Section 2.23 (b) of these proposed
regulations, that any representation made by a trade association
"shall be on behalf of its members and shall constitute a represen­
tation on behalf of each member of the trade association, except
those specifically excluded by name in any such submission."
The
obstacles to equitable administration of justice under the law
that could be evoked by such a provision are so numerous as to preclude
detailed reference in this report.
Such objections have been fully
documented in our submission to FDA.
Other features of the proposed
regulations to which we have submitted substantial comments have
included a proposed limitation on the opportunity to present oral
testimony and to cross-examine witnesses during hearings, and the
establishment of criteria which the FDA asserted constituted a
proper basis on which to deny a petition or right to a hearing.
These provisions and others of varying degrees of importance and
impact are not merely a codification of existing FDA procedures, but
in many respects, represent a basic change in practices that restrict'
the rights of individuals subject to the agency's jurisdiction
obtain consideration and review.
Another legislative development of importance which is now
under review by the legislative and regulatory subcommittee is the
Kennedy Food Surveillance S.641.
Although originally heralded
as applying primarily to food manufacturing and processing establish­
ments, this proposed legislation has implications extending beyond
these areas.
Under the manufacturing sections, surveillance features
are included relating to the establishment of safety assurance pro­
cedures within plants, product coding, record keeping, and inspections.
In addition the contains provisions for requiring registration
of food establishments.
However, in a broader context, the
imposes obligations on food processors to immediately notify the
institution of a recall as well as the possibility that processed
foods "may be adulterated."
Citizens civil actions also are authorrized under the
Additionally, the contains extensive
new requirements pertaining to the label identification of all
ingredients.
in addition to these activities, the Committee has also
monitored the NCI Carcinogenic Bioassay program, the FCC and FAO/WHO
monographs for food chemicals, and the FDA review of GRAS substances.
CMA 036992
These activities have been carried out primarily under the program
of the scientific together a number of other
projects relating to technical developments in the area of food,
drug, and cosmetic chemicals,
The development of proposed Good
Manufacturing Practices Guidelines for bulk drugs and food chemicals
is presently under study by this
In addition, technical
liaison is carried out the activities of PMA, as they relate
to bulk drugs and with GMA, as they relate to food chemicals.
A project presently active within the communications sub­
committee is the development of a proposal for the of a
chemical industry information center.
Although the details of the
organization and operation of such a center and various considerations
relating to its establishment are not yet defined in concrete terms,
it is believed that such a center could help to improve the public's
understanding of questions and controversies that confront our
industry.
While the above describe briefly the broad spectrum of activ-,
ties that have been carried forward during the past year, a summary
of the Committee's activities would not be complete without an
Such objectives clearly
must be understood in the light of the legislative and regulatory
climate that exists today.
Seen in this perspective, one can only
keep up with developments and the frustration of able only to
superficially react to the various problems that continue to arise.
Despite the diligent efforts of restructuring the FDCC
the MCA activity in this area should be undertaken.
course, a variety of ways in which response to the greater
in this area of our activities can be made.
I would not propose as
ular solution.
It is appropriate, however, to recognize that the
time may have arrived whep the means which have us well in
area of food, drug, and cosmetic chemicals.
MCA has always prided itself on the fact committee leader­
ship and most of the working input from the member companies.
CMA 036993

proliferating Legislation and such as food, drug and
cosmetic law.
Therefore, I urge this to appoint a committee to study the
issue of from where the leadership of any particular committee
come.
Should it be the MCA staff, or should it continue to
come from the companies.
The may not be the same
be a fresh look.
I
f
036994
