Exhibit H
REPORT TO BOARD
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
Ronald S. Wishart, Jr.f Chairman
Energy Conservation Committee
September 14,
1976
This is the first report of the Energy Conservation Committee,
established by the Board of Directors at its November 1975 meeting.
Up to that date, and beginning in October 1974, an ad hoc committee
had dealt energy conservation matters.
From October 1974
onward, the Committee has maintained, where legally feasible; a
close liaison and active cooperation the Department of rce and the FEA and its contractors.
Since its establishment,
two major responsibilities:
the Committee has been dealing
1. Supervising the ongoing voluntary program of twice-yearly
reports on energy conservation the Department of Commerce and
the F deral Energy Administration.
As of the preparation of this
report, the most recent energy conservation report was that submitt d in April 7 of this year, in which 107 MCA member companies
participated.
The report showed energy conservation for the
calendar year 1975 as 4.0% per unit of output, compared 1972
as a base year.
Without the energy costs of OSHA and environmental
regulations in effect in 1975 but not in 1972, the energy
tion rate would have been 4.9%.
An over-riding reason for the
relative modesty of these figures was that, due to the recession,
our industry was operating at only 74.2% of capacity in 1975, com­
pared 83.5% in 1972.
There are very few major MCA member companies not taking part
in MCA's energy reporting program or those of other relevant
ations, such as the Fertilizer Institute and the
Manufacturers Association.
These few companies have been individually
contacted, and will hopefully be taking part in the next report to
the two Federal agencies, due in mid-September.
This voluntary program is the result of^an October 1974
meeting between top Commerce Department and FEA officials and top
officials of some 28 major chemical companies, all MCA members.
At
this meeting, there was agr ement on a consensus energy conservation
goal of 15% per unit of output by calendar 1980 as compared
037048
calendar
1972.
2. Since December 1975, when the President signed into law
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, the Committee has been
seeking to cope the new industrial energy conservation pro­
visions which are part of this Act.
The Act focuses on the ten leading energy-consuming industries
by two-digit SIC codes, officially identified early this year.
Not
surprisingly, our industry 28) ranks first.
For each of these top 10 industries, FEA is to set an energy
conservation goal, replacing the consensus goals under which many
industries, including ours, have been operating.
FEA has contracted
with outside consultants to study each of the ten industries and
propose goals - which, of course, FEA can accept or modify.
Because of the complexity of the chemical industry, FEA
initially had difficulty getting an appropriate contractor to take
on the job.
However, thanks in part to MCA's interest in having a
qualified contractor take on this responsibility, Battelle Memorial
Institute finally undertook it, with Chem Systems as subcontractor
The engineering and technical subcommittee of the Energy Conservation
Committee worked closely the contractors, aiding them individually
and collectively in their demanding task, and contributing their ex­
pertise in methodology.
The contractors have submitted their .report,
and it will be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER in late September,
with public hearings in October.
It is quite possible that consumer and environmental groups may
testify in opposition to any proposed reasonable target for our
industry, so MCA must be prepared to testify in its own behalf.
Internal studies carried on by the Committee indicate that the in­
dustry can meet a target in the neighborhood of 15%.
In further EPCA requirements, FEA must identify
the top energy-consuming companies in each of the ten already-iden­
tified industries - either the 50 highest-ranking companies or
those over a trillion BTU's in energy per year, whichever
number is smaller.
Some 60 companies reporting through MCA have
listed energy purchases of over a trillion BTU's a year, and there
may be other such companies reporting through the Fertilizer
Institute, etc.
It therefore seems likely that the cut-off point
for chemical companies will be somewhat over a trillion BTU's per
037049

Under EPCA provisions and regulations, companies reporting
through industry programs such as MCA's may be exempted from
vidual reporting, even if it would otherwise be required of them.
The criteria for acceptable industry programs will be published in
the FEDERAL REGISTER.
However, because FEA is falling behind its
EPCA timetable, there remains a 50/50 chance that companies may
have to file at least one mandatory individual report in early 1977.
Another section of EPCA provides for the encouragement and
subsidy of state energy programs.
Here MCA's prime interest is in
exempting major industries like ours from reporting the various
states, since they already report to Federal agencies.
If, however,
some states insist upon industrial energy conservation reporting,
w would urge them to adopt the same system already in effect for
Federal reporting.
After monitoring two regional hearings on
state programs, MCA testified to this effect at the plenary
hearing in Washington in July.
Another area of FEA concern outside of EPCA is its program
to promote fuel conversion from oil and gas to coal.
The future
issues subcommittee of the Energy Conservation Committee has mon-itored the questionnaires to be sent out to companies in this area,
and has made recommendations which have been persuasively relayed
to FEA through a task force of the Industrial Energy Users Forum.
~ A genuine success was realized in modifying some unreasonable re­
quests - e.g. obtrusive financial questions in the Major FuelBurning installation questionnaire.
The Energy Conservation Committee has four subcommittees:
engineering and technical? state relations; fuel types; and future
issues.
It has also established fruitful liaison three other
MCA standing Committees: Government Relations, Legal Advisory, and
Public Relations.
Government Relations contacts have been useful in dealing
legislation going through the Congress concerned in one way or
another energy conservation.
Public Relations have helped in
the explanation of the effect on energy conservation of the
relatively low capacity at which the industry was functioning in
calendar 1975 - and our presentation in this regard was welcomed
by the Department of Commerce and the Federal Energy Administration
as supportiv
of their reports to the public.
Furthermore, Public
Relations ass mbled and distributed internal and external publica­
tions by m mber companies designed to promote energy conservation.
We shall look to Legal Advisory liaison for advice in preparing
testimony for the various public hearings which will be scheduled
as part of the EPCA program.
037050
to Exhibit H
APPENDIX - ENERGY UPDATE
TOTAL ENERGY
Total energy demand declined,
over the period 1973-75.
During the first half of 1976 energy
demand increased sharply and the year-end demand is expected to
near 1973 levels.
energy demand is projected to grow
OIL
Oil products demand declined from 17.3 16.6 MM B/D (-3.0%
during 1973-75.
During the first half of 1976 oil products
demand increased sharply, nearing the 1973 levels.
Domestic crude oil production declined at about -4% (1973-75),
although the first half of 1976 showed a slowing of this decline.
Imports (crude oil and products) reached a record level near
first half of 1976 and are expected to approach 10 to 11
the early 1980's and reverse the decline in domestic production
through the 1980's.
' The pipeline is about a month behind schedule and
completion could be delayed even further due to welding defects
(current target completion date is December, 1976).
Outer Continental Shelf lease sales have been held for Alaska,
California, and Atlantic (the development schedule for these
leases is
The Energy Policy and Conservation Act (December 22, 1975)
established a new crude oil pricing mechanism (initial crude
oil price rollback plus maximum 10%/year price increases) and
required review of oil product price decontrol date,
residual fuel oil, distillates, naphthas (except SNG plant
feedstock) and gas oils have been
EPCA required
PEA to develop a plan for the maintenance and storage (equiva­
lent of 3 months of imports) of readily available inventories
of crude and products for use during energy shortages.
EPCA
also established efficiency standards for automobiles and ef­
ficiency targets for major appliances and major industries.
oil equivalent barrels per day.
2) Average Annual Increase
037051
NATURAL GAS
Domestic production continued to decline (-6.3% 1973/75)
with 1976 production estimated at about 19 trillion cubic
feet.
No reversal of the downward trend is expected through
1985.
A new pricing program was recently proposed by for
escalating the price of three "new" gas (post-1/1/73)
cations.
This program is currently subject to litigation and
possible congressional legislation.
Classification III new
gas (sale to interstate commerce initiated on or after 1/1/75)
is raised from about $0.52/Mcf. to $1.42/Mcf. and escalated at
$0.01/Mcf./quarter starting 10/1/76.
COAL
Production has increased at about 3 to 4% since 1973 with
1976 production estimated at about 660 MM tons.
Interior's freeze
on coal leasing in the western states is expected to be lifted
early in 1977; however, FEA's objective of doubling coal produc­
tion by 1985 is considered optimistic.
Related developments;
Sierra Club vs. Kleppe has been
settled - no extended regional impact statement is required;
Leasing Act has been enacted over Presidential veto sets rules for leasing federal lands; interior Department surface
legislation has been vetoed twice in the last two

5% gain the first half of 1976.
Post-1976 sales growth
FEA coal orders are now in effect for 30 of the 74 ,new
ties.
Besides remaining 44 new power plants an additional
48 new plants have also been designated for coal burning
facilities.
Court rulings that:
complete fuel cycle should be considered in individual
operation since 1972); and, energy conservation should be con­
037052
T.pgisIation was enacted in California which requires
an extensive of nuclear power plant feasibility and
at least five states have similar initiatives on the
November ballot.
AMENDMENTS TO THE ATR AOT
by EPA were upheld a recent court decision and Congress is
seeking its own standards.
New amendments to Act have been passed by the Senate and the
Both include:
"clean" areas; some of the automotive emission
standards; compliance date extensions for industrial and utilities
emission sources; additional controls for "polluted" areas.
ENERGY TECHNOLOGY
has developed a Plan for dollar
oil and gas recovery, shale, geothermal, solar, nuclear,
synthetic fuels...) conservation (energy
technologies.
INTERNATIONAL
some price increases be forthcoming after the December, '1976
meeting.
The International Energy Agency has just approved a detailed
a long-range program includes:
production increased 27.1 MM B/D in 1975 to 28.2 MM B/D
during the first quarter 1976 which reduced shut-in capacity
037063
