Exhibit H
REPORT TO BOARD
OCTOBER
1976
In an to illustrate to you the relative importance of
matters that are now pending pertaining to international trade,
Office of Trade Representative
The occasion was
a plenary in Washington some two weeks ago for a group
of Sector Advisory committees (or ISAC). Ambassador
pent told that imports into this country in 1976 are expect­
ed to be up 20% over those of 1975, while exports will be up
dollars.
Imports of petroleum products in the U.S.A.
1973 were at 7 billion dollars.
This year are
expected to reach 32 billion dollars.
Gentlemen, the need for industry support in the international
trade area has never been as great as it is now.
dustry is than the corresponding cost in the Common Market
but is expected to be equal to that of the common
Market in about four years. Your International Trade committee
al trade a must.
I am advised that the subject of trade did not appear in the
those subjects of the greatest concern to them according to a
However, does appear that we could have
long-range problems in our economy, unless international trade
this in mind, I would now like to give you an
°utline of what I hope to cover in the next 10 to 12 minutes.
First, i to spend about 3 minutes on the status of the
'T negotiations.
The main of my presentation to you
1 last about 8 minutes, and this is devoted to the work
t is on in ISAC-5 (Chemicals).
UP a brief comment concerning OCITA (Office of chemical
industry Trade .
f
037085
m
2
In regard to GATT, I am aware that Dr. Dawson has pretty much
kept you to date in this area.
The report of these
the tariff formula, which was first tabled by the U.S.A., dif­
fers from the one that the common Market brought out in.July.
The formula tabled by the U. S. suggests that all tariffs
above be cut by 60% (the maximum allowed by the Trade
and those below 6.7% by a formula of cuts between
The
EC formula proposes tariffs would be cut by their own amount, a
process would be repeated four times.
That is to say, a
tariff of 50% would initially be cut 50%, the result a
four more times would mean an ultimate
tariff of 13%.
The version tends to embrace more
in that it cuts the higher duties more than our
formula does.
we remain critical of the EC proposal in that it specifically
The Market still hopes
av rage reduction of the current duties of about 32% and that
is before any exceptions are taken into account.
I understand
that Mr. during visit to the Summit Meeting in Puerto
Rfco stated that the U. S. should shoot for a target cut of 35%
Since
Mr. Ford referring to a cut after exceptions are taken into
account, can see this leaves a wide gap for our negotiators
to close.
As to the timing of the final decision on the tariff formula,
you are aware that the Swedes have recently settled their elec­
tions.
Soon it be the West and the Japanese. At
the first of this coming year, there will be a replacement of
eight of the nine EC Ministers in Brussels. All of cou­
pled our own elections in November, leads your Committee
to the that not only will there be an agreement on
before early to mid-1977 at best.
037086
I

continues, however, to let us know that things are
indeed in Geneva various Multilateral Trade
tion subgroups at work hammering out preliminary details.
These subgroups have been meeting with our trading partners in
an to come to a mutual understanding on how to treat
supply* government procurement, standards and codes, GATT re­
form, the very important subject of non-tariff barriers.
Due to a wide variety of non-tariff barriers currently employ­
ed, it thought by many that the settlement of this matter is
ISAc-5,
six of whom are from the MCA International Trade Com­
mittee, are providing U. S. chemical industry overviews on how
we wish matters to be handled when negotiations do finally
This me into the subject of how ISAC-5 is progressing. At
Office of Special Trade Representative, that ISAC-5 was better
and better organized than any of the remaining 25 ISACs.
This praise by the government is not meant to imply that we nec­
expect to do better in the negotiations than we did in
reason for government to eventually point the finger at our
dustry and tell us that we failed in doing our homework.
There still remains an inadequate two-way flow of
in large and complex government private sector committee
structures. At the same time, it is agreed that they are func­
tioning better than they were at the start.
to
tell us that they are determined to further improve the ISAC
system and that the outcome of the negotiations will depend, to
a great extent, on just how well we have prepared the Geneva
negotiators, which in turn, is saying just how well the ISAC

037087

Due to complexity of the chemical industry, we were forced
The
ISAC-5 is expected to meet four times this year, while
the will meet at least that many times. At the pre­
chemical products would be most sensitive to tariff cuts.
This
is the exceptions list.
There one key area that I solicit
that in the field of inorganic products.
More into
that decisions by ISAC-5 members are being made.
This
input, as it pertains sensitivity, should be made directly
to the Department of Commerce, and the appropriate address is
given the written report of these remarks.
Consultation Policy Staff, Department of Commerce,
D. C.
20230
As works this exceptions list and brings it a
we are informed by government that our next step
will one of being certain that we can ultimately provide the
necessary justification for our decisions.
By of a
we are preparing ourselves to address these questions
from government. We are also establishing priorities within the
xceptions list itself.
Thus, critical area for our
try will probably reside in the rules for exception^,
In to this work on exceptions, we continue to press
to an ad valorem basis, the selection of the base year
being the critical matter.
Some year has to be agreed
upon order provide a starting point for the calculation
of the value of the concessions to be negotiated.
This more
for the chemical industry than perhaps any other due
to fact that we have such a large number of specific and
over last several years.


Finally* I wish to report that Dr. Dawson, in the capacity of
in New York City.
Dr. Dawson has restructured this
oar can be sure of addressing all agencies of our
with uniform voice.
In to MCA; SOCMA,
spX, and various members of ISAC-5 will all be brought together
This organization is not restrict­
ed as is the ISAC program in that two-way communication is pos­
sible.
One item that was not included in my outline that may be of
terest to you. Gentlemen, deals with a recent survey sent to
the chemical industry by the Stanford Research Institute
in with the U. S. Department of Labor.
Due to the
that the survey called for, an overwhelming number of
U. chemical companies have declined to respond.
conclusion, within the next 12 months, there is a reasonable
There continues be a serious need for
available opportunities.
see Dave Dawson out there amongst you, and he has agreed to
me answer any questions.
partners.
