I
Exhibit B
Report of the Pension Committee
to the
Board of Directors
22, 1976
to its responsibility concerning non*salary benefits for
the Association's staff, the Pension Committee recommends approval of
Two
ago, when the Pension Plan was the principle of periodic adjust­
ment of pension payments to past retirees in recognition of increased
cost of living was accepted.
have by nearly 18%, of which 15% was occasioned by rise in the
Price Index.
would for the five retirees and one surviving spouse who
were receiving benefits, and lesser percentages for the five employees
(2) Life Insurance Coverage for Future Retirees
For
MCA now provides life insurance coverage of two times
annual but no continuation in retirement. The option to convert
at personal expense is unattractive because of the high cost of attained-age
premium. Continuation is not uncommon, however, but usually on a re­
the staff retiring from MCA on or after December 1, 1976 as follows,
designed for family protection rather than as an estate factor:
For MCA retiree who completed seven years
were continuous, and legal dependents
Amount equal to final annual salary, subject
$25, for the first two years in retirement;

2
Amount equal 50% of final salary, subject
for the third, fourth, and years
$2, after the year in retirement.
For other MCA retiree who completed three years
Amount equal 50% of final salary subject to
for first five years in retirement; and
$2, after the year in retirement.
For other MCA retiree:
At the maximum benefit level ($25, 000 first two years) and at
rate quotations, the peak cost of about $1,235 per individual would
occur the second year of retirement (age 66). Overall cost from age 65
age 79 would total about $6, 600.
MCA has five employees whose normal retirement dates occur
April 1977 and November 1981. Assuming all at the maximum
' and build to about $4, 000 in fiscal year 1981-82.
(3) Partial Substitution of Ordinary Life for Term Life Insurance
The cost of life insurance provided an employee in excess of $50, 000
coverage is supplemental income taxable the employee. At higher salary
the two-times-salary term life insurance benefit provided by MCA
a considerable tax outlay.
under which the insurance company allocates the premium between the two.
ordinary life is taxable income the individual. Advantage lies in a level
for the ordinary life portion at the starting age. making it more
It is proposed to divide the coverage equally between ordinary
life and for employees at or above the $35, 000 salary level, namely,

ordinary life. The estimated aggregate of increased cost to
the several employees that would qualify their current salary levels -is about $9,800 the time of retirement, whereas the aggregate cash value
value at all from insurance at whatever level.
The added cost to MCA in the current year would approach
$6, dropping to less than $4. 000 after retirement of the first employee
who qualify.
(4) Reduction of Qualifications for Term Life Insurance Coverage
life insurance, thus making it logical to set the same age and service
two years ago, however, the funding arrangements of the two were
separated and became independent of one another.
the same as for pension coverage, as MCA now does, it has been learned it
be illegal specify an age limitation as such. It is proposed to
Also, the present requirement of one year of service is an un­
It is proposed to lower the requirement to three months, this the
now in effect to qualify for MCA's medical benefits.
cost of these changes would be minimal. There are relative­
ly few below age 25 on the staff, premium rates for the young are low, and
covered group. The cost of the reduced service requirement would be
modest, also, considering the low turnover rate among high-salaried em­


