G
TO BOARD OF
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
JOSEPH SANDFORD, JR., CHAIRMAN
CHEMICAL COMMITTEE
NOVEMBER
1976
emphasize major areas - regulations and legislation.
Our
objective is to provide background on our Committee oper­
ations and how we are assisting each of our companies achieve
both in packaging and regulatory compliance.
Times have changed!
Just a years ago, a chemical
packaging engineer might be concentrating on the steel thickness
of a drum for solvents, the moisture barrier in a bag for plastic
resins, a fungicide box closure.
Today, he also know
about the Transportation Safety Act of 1974, the consolidation
of DOT the .Metric Conversion Act of 1975, inter­
national regulations, and, looking the future, reg­
ulations on solid waste disposal and carcinogens.
What has this change in our Committee's
ities? We believe the most important factor is the concern on
the part of both the private and public sectors for greater
safety in the packaging, transportation and distribution of haz­
ardous materials.
The Department of Transportation's past two
annual on hazardous materials control are more specific
about concern over safety.
In these two years, 59 fatalities
and over injuries occurred in all hazardous materials
incidents of which over 50% involved chemical products.
The De­
partment Transportation, or as we usually say "DOT", also
lists the ten worst accidents for each year? 70% of these
volved chemical industry products with a total of nine fatalities
It is for reasons like this that the
The major legislative act affecting our activities
is the Transportation Safety Act of 1974, passed by Congress
in early
Key include:
extended regulate package unloading, certain
types of and shipment routing.
CMA
for obtaining package exemptions are
made much more complex.
and even commodities not presently defined as

Criminal as well as civil penalties can be imposed
years now included.
In the field, DOT has just issued its
complete of Title 49 of the Code of Federal
and packaging of hazardous materials.
has been over four years in preparation and incorporates many
shipment of chemical packages.
it creates a metric board to oversee voluntary conversion in the
United States.
export packaging with domestic packages going metric over the
next ten years.
Our liaison Canadian MCA member companies

to be aware of United Nations and XMCO regulations and appropriate
rail and truck regulations in the various countries which we
ship.
mental Maritime Consultative Organization, are contained in an
disposal legislation recently enacted
has not affected packaging.
However, legislation proposed but
not would have imposed a fee on packaging materials
that are not reusable or recyclable.
Regulations and legislation while deeply involved
DOT recognizes
this to a degree and has introduced the term "cost/benefit" be
in any reviews of package regulation changes.

The industry
uses 50 million new and reconditioned steel and fibre drums
annually at a cost of about $500 million.
to hold our plastics, agricultural chemicals and acids at an
CMA037120
of $300 million.
We use some 600 million bags and
The total annual cost of packaging
of
Perhaps of equal importance from a solid waste disposal
million pounds of wood.
groups and subcommittees reflect our concern over regulations
we are to assist our industry.
First, recently formed a new regulations and legis­
lation to control all of our activities in this
area as metrication, definitions of hazardous materials,
liaison DOT and our activities on the intercommittee group
with initial efforts emphasizing proper inclusion of
The Packages Subcommittee is a tech­
and small quantities.
A task has developed technical bulletins on
proper for loading, bracing and blocking in truck,
rail and piggyback shipments.
safe but don't really specify effective techniques.
A proposed hazardous materials regulation spec­
ified testing requirements that current acid carboys would not
pass.
A task group worked closely with suppliers to develop a
new design that met all requirements.
materials meant that drums currently used for products such as
dyes, compounds or reagents were no longer legal.
The Subcommittee coordinated industry input and succeeded
hazard products and allow continued use of present packages.
CMA
our as well as those in our carrier and distributor

Equipment and Transportation and Distribution Committees, spon­
sored a on hazardous materials regulations with over
1,100 attendees from all concerned shipper and carrier groups.
As to future, each subcommittee has an active task
group reviewing waste disposal effects on our packages, including
possible reuse and recycle.
sponsored a workshop on plastic drum development with DOT, the
on plastic drum developments, and representatives from the Plastic
Drum the producers' association.
joint approach, which we consider to be a significant breakthrough,
will provide the forum for full participation by all groups in
regulations development and application.
In future, we may
have an entirely new class of hazardous materials to package since
DOT has already indicated they have under development regulations
to the proper packaging and transportation of health
The Packaging Committee activities far exceed
to safely carry our products.
' insure we meet DOT regulations; the transportation
and requirements such as proper loading, bracing
and customers must be able to safely use our packages,
and the future, we must be able to return them or
the industry to meet all legal requirements while main­
a low-risk position in transportation proper cost/
And intend to make known the position
of our industry on legislative and regulatory matters.
We emphasized today the effect of regulations
and legislation on packaging.
the entire field of transportation and distribution in
the chemical industry.
member companies have active pro­
Du Pont calls its
037122
the "RHYTHM" program, an acronym for Remember How You
Hazardous Materials.
Xn I will show a short film
illustrate the continued need for MCA commitment and involvement
transportation, distribution and packaging activities.
037123
