REDACTION
VOLUME 4
37096 - 37464
11/22/76 and 37097 - 37132) - CMA Board of
Directors Minutes.
concealed report of its director of government relations
and describing the "important new laws" passed at the
end of the 1976 second legislative session, including:
"The Toxic Control Act (PL 94-469), finally became the
law after five years of deliberation and controversy, thus establishing Federal
controls over manufacturer, distribution and use of chemicals."
37112), which didn't pass but which were "likely to surface
"A to provide stricter regulations of lobbying...;
Common Cause a strong advocate, while Nader groups and the AFL-CIO
supported only the House version..." CMA concealed the "apprehension" of
"dues paid to trade associations by corporate members could
be subject to disclosure under some concepts." concealed its
discussion of failure of the Clean Act Amendments whose filibuster
Senator Musky blamed on the auto industry. The CMA concealed its
discussion of "Industrial Organization, the so-called Hart Bill" who sponsors
for possible creates a special commission to make divestiture
investigations and a special court to compel dismantling." 37113).
concealed having reported the failure of which would have
proposals "to a new consumer protection agency," expand the FTC,
concealed description of Jimmy Carter as "an anti­
establishment for nearly two years" but that "Jimmy Carter now IS
the establishment." 37114), The CMA concealed its statement that
Carter "is now confronted the dilemma of some delicacy: How to begin
to direct and motivate the people and the mechanisms he as so recently
have enjoyed the independence and status which the years of
confrontation [during the 'stalemate government' of Presidents and
Ford] have 3711 5). These legislatures simply "covet their
independence of action" and consider their role" as being nothing
ineffectual..." Longtime Carter watchers point out that "he adopted a tough,
no compromise attitude towards the Georgia legislature during as
Q:\wp51 \Mollie\37096-37464
President...would apparently retain the present non-degradation concepts of
the Clean Air and "has called for stricter enforcement of water pollution
control laws and evidently will oppose efforts to weaken Federal Water
concealed the report of its Chemical Packaging Committee (and
its existence) (CMA 37119-123): "Times have changed! Just a few years
ago, chemical packaging engineers might be concentrating on the steel
thickness of a drum for solvents...," etc., but "today, he must also know
Regulations... and, looking the future, regulations on solid waste deposal
important factor is the concern on the part of both private and public sectors
for greater safety in the packaging, transportation, and distribution of
hazardous
concealed its discussion of DOT recognition of "cost/benefit" it
"considers in any reviews of package regulation changes. Packaging is seen
as a cost in our industry." 37120). The concealed the fact
its Packaging Committee "together with the Transportation Equipment and
and Distribution Committees, sponsors symposium on
hazardous materials regulations over attendees from all concerned
shipper and carriers groups..." Other evidence indicates the CMA's
preference regulation by DOT. concealed "DOT has already
indicated they have underdevelopment regulations applying to the proper
packaging and transportation of health products such as carcinogens,
concealed its Chemical Packaging Committees' reference to its
assist the chemical industry to meet all legal requirements
cost/benefit And we intend to make known the position or
industry on legislative and regulatory matters." 37122).
Consistent its systematic redaction of similar reports which
despite orders of the court thinks it has a right to "redact" as "nonresponsive" or "unlikely to lead to the discovery of relevant evidence, here
again the Public Relations Committees' report to the board of
directors. the very existence of the Public Relations Committee was
concealed by CMA in its first three document production.
were adjuncts to its overall public relations efforts: redacted as
irrelevant goal for its previous year (one of
areas of CMA a more meaningful contribution the industry total
could be made. These things have been done. The assaults
the of that committee Chemical Regulations Advisory Committee
"an to participate in Dr. Heckert's SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON TOXIC LEGISLATION" which CMA says "demonstrated what can be
accomplished interaction of functions when proper leadership is
provided." [I don't know what this means exactly though. We do know that
the beginning of this committee (whose existence concealed by began
"about months ago" and this would have been around the time of
the "jurisdictional dispute" of the spring of 1975.] It was
"about months ago" that the "Public Relation Committee stepped
committees, particularly Government Relations, Technical and Legal
Advisory." Technical Group would have included the vinyl panel and the
link the vinyl panel and it begins with Tenneco, who shared the SPI's
public relations activities are intertwined and has redacted this
statement as "proof that joint committee action can get things done...:
common and pursuit. We have agreed upon issues that should the
greatest of the association [referring the generally and the
and the environment, and the increasing government constraints which he
wrote management of its resources.
specific references to liaisons between its Public
Committee, Government Relations Committee, as well as its Legal
Advisory and Relations Advisory Committee. 37124).
concealed "the Quality Committee, for example, will provide facts on
the Public Relations Committee." This document spells
the [public project, recruit the best possible spokesman from
have in mind are you gentlemen, the directors of MCA, supported by other
concealed its discussion of the advantages of its plan to
interject the Public Relations Committee into actively resolve with other
committees: "The short range [advantage] is gain some badly
The longer range advantage will be gained as we found as we build up this
corps of MCA has a constant need for industry experts who can
provide statements and can make appearances on relevantly short notice..."
For the to provide "news media" 'the other sides' position
when the [relating to, say, air quality, etc.] is breaking." The
concealed its goal as provide, al carte, experts to furnish "the other sides"
position there is a "whole sordid story" to tell which the chemical
industry to come up "the other side" with the assistance of the
CMA's Public Relations Committee. 37125).
that its leading environmental "Journal ChemEcology"
was, in fact, the creature of the CMA's Public Relations Committee whose
express was to "expand further its coverage of member companies
37126).
concealed its "three-times-a-year CHEMICAL ISSUES AND
COMMENTARY" is described as a "survey of member companies" by
and which goes back to 1973, when we began polling people
in MCA activities in six companies and the professional staff of
MCA..." but has "now grown to nineteen companies and MCA with
over respondents." MCA has consistently concealed all references to
believable surveys, especially in the 1973-74 era would not contain
responsive information.
report which includes a report from the chairman of its Occupational Health
Committee that the director of OSHA had recently told OSHA "would
welcome input early in the development of any proposed standard....
Information includes toxicological work place exposure data on
chemicals to be regulated, which would become part of the pertinent
its of "a entitled the 'Approaching Toxic Era' in
Houston, 11th, (CMA 37132). "MCA made public additional
data relating the safety of acrylonitrile monitor on November
9th as a of feeding liquid acrylonitrile to pregnant rats.
a case in which plaintiffs have put the CMA's activities regard SD56 front and center, has redacted relevant references to its having
revision present knowledge regarding property, characteristics
and handling" and its promise reissue them someday. During this time
and years to come the CMA continue "sit on" SD-56, despite its promise
revision as as 1 974,
1/11/77 and 37133-37170) - Board of
Directors Minutes.
Again, CMA concealed the agenda for its meeting, including both
Committee its Industrial Relations Advisory Committee and
three prior of the document found at 37134, and after
stipulating these minutes weren't confidential years ago, and after never
having previously asserted any claim or privilege whatsoever with the regard
this in its entirety at the very latest by the time of the last Case
37136), as "privileged." Only by reference to the (previously
concealed) is it possible to even guess this material probably relates
to the Legal Advisory Committee portion of the Board of Director's report.
was to produce in its entirety months if not years ago.
questioning regulation per say to impose the least possible
documentation" of this propertied phenomena ("this adverse
the Board of Director (Mr. was to summit a memorandum on the
subject to Executive Committee. 37137).
research only a small small fraction of its funds. CMA further
37140)
concealed its survey of member companies obtain "sound
Q-.\wp51
environmental management" which it said was "similar to that
used in 1965" and enabled "direct comparisons with information
obtained in surveys "conducted in 1962, 1967, 1972, and 1975." Such
data "has MCA with factual information useful in the growing public
debate over costs/benefits. 37142-37144).
concealed the report of its Food, Drug and Cosmetic Chemicals
and U.S.V. Park holding that "a corporate executive could be prosecuted
under the provisions of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for
causing the adulteration and however remote involvement in that
situation" it describes as imposing "absolute criminal liability based
merely upon the responsibility of the individual corporate officers for certain
areas of activity." 37151).
the report from its Industrial Advisory Committee that
industry expect "increased future activity" in areas relating
"occupational safety and equal employment opportunity. Whether you have
or not, your employees are becoming aware of their rights in these
areas. If you have many are building technical staffs in the safety,
hygiene and health fields the way their locals have auditing the safety of our
work Several companies in our industry have experienced employee
problems. must be prepared to devote more management time and
resources to avoid further employee anxieties about the safety of their work
"Under the of circumstances, those of us with unions can expect
to hear about health and safety in future negotiations. are
suing OSHA. We should expect that this impatient will result in a more
direct approach employers, including demands for Safety Committees
such medical consultants such as Dr. Irving Selicoff??..."
concealed its characterization of OSHA at the time
Morton Corn took office: "The perception of OSHA by the public,
government, and industry at the time was highly unflattering. Morton Corn
has not yet succeeded in reversing, that view but is determined to do so..."
"In short, Corn is making OSHA a new and different kind of
which is describes as "on a more professional level"
and period." 37159)
concealed its "contact with the International Labor
through the International Chemicals Employers Labor Relations
Q:\wp51 \Mollie\37096-37464
is in effect need the caucus for ILO purposes of
chemical throughout the world." This demonstrates the close
lesion between and its European counterparts. concealed its
anymore. It reports that the "Chamber of Commerce, which represents U.S.
management the ILO, has taken the position that so long as we are
members, we should be fully active, particularly in seeking needed reforms.
This to be proper position for MCA to maintain."
concealed solicitation of thirty-five trade organizations
requesting "that MCA presumes the role of coordinator in communicating
with the in respect of regulations implanting the TSCA."
37168).
consisted of the report of the Legal Advisory Committee.
37137).
Directors Minutes.
for receiving..." from specifically a document of a type
systematically concealed entitled "Toxic Substances Management
Memo" 37175). concealed its proposed program on the OSHA
regulation of Benzene 37181-185) and its position on the Toxic
Substances Control Act 37185) which includes references to the
CMA's "consolidation" organization of other "available data" for presentation
represent a large enough base. Adding them together may provide a more
picture. Again, it was felt that outside expertise should be
sought to the 37182). This study turns out
to have been conducted by Otto Wong?? and EHA or NCNSR if I not
mistaken. indicates the reanalysis of the existing studies was the goal
EPA policy, including EPA's "dropping its proposal that impurities
acceptance be reported with annual production volumes." 37191).
As usual, concealed the report of its Government Relations
Committee, which includes a hilarious recollection of how easy used to
keep off the Senate floor or by just leaving town to "tend to my cows"
Q:\wp51
but it was the time when had more influence in
Congress than they have today. But that day went out one man, one
vote drive that took place more than a decade ago, [the
influence of television on "selecting and influencing members of Congress, as
well as rise of public interests groups, " including the Washington offices
of several large companies following World War II: "In the last two decades,
as itself." 37194). redacted its complaints that it
once did. the vernacular of Capital Hill, they ask us: 'How many votes
have you The speaker analogizes the tally on election day to the
corporate "bottom-line on your corporate financial statement."
What CMA concealed by concealing the origins of its "grass roots
voice on Capital Hill" is that it marshaled two "resources that presently are
receive understanding of the kind of governmental climate that exists for
preservation of private enterprise, and an understanding of how that personal
welfare relates to that of a corporation...," ect. 371 95). This
contemplates the "mobilization" of employees and stockholders of
coordination of efforts the of Britain, testimony before a
resulting "opportunity to influence Congressional thinking..." and "wrestling
interface between suspected carcinogencity and test animals versus proven
of at three defendants) to "prepare recommendations in this critical
area." activities of this committee were systematically concealed by

concealed its publication by the same Dr. Gaffe who is the
who originally studied the vinyl industry and who
subsequently the vinyl chloride research coordinators: "Regulatory agencies
often use the findings of the epidemiology studies when they make decisions
and issue guidelines. The kinds of epidemiology studies, however, as well as
the data they require in their scope of usefulness, are sometimes not well
On recommendation of the Occupational Health Committee,
MCA engaged Dr. R. Gaffe to write an explanatory article in
technical language on Occupational Epidemiology" which had been printed as
booklet entitled "A Brief Overview of Occupational
Dr. Gaffe "was Equitable Environmental Health, Inc.,
when to write the article" but is now at Standford Research
37202). CMA subsequently other references to this paper.
3/8/77 12588-12589 and 37203-37260) - CMA Board of
Directors Meeting Minutes.
law 37206 and 37212-213) which expressly endorses the
"National Legal Center for the Public Interest" which it says is dedicated to
Ralph Possessive Public Citizen Groups, National Resources
Defense Council, and Searra Club Legal Defense Fund 300 full­
time budgets exceeding $10,000,000 a year. The Specific
the activities of the above by supporting the free enterprise
system traditional concepts of private property and competition. It has
had many The National Legal Center for the Public Interest was
established in Washington, D.C., in 1975 "four principle objections:"
(1) To help establish independent regional legal foundations dedicated to a
balanced of the role of law in achieving and social progress
view and strategies achieve the foundations' objectives...; (3)
To act as a resource center regional litigation foundations' in obtaining
researchers and experts..."; and (4) To identify legislative,
Under the auspices of the many other regional foundations
have organized, patterned after the four-runner "These
foundations will support in the courts the tenets of free enterprise which
concealed the Legal Advisory Committee's endorsement of the
activities of these organizations and adopted an attached resolution of
endorsement.
who can't seem to find the secrecy agreements its solicited and
Chairman. 37214).
its staff report concerning MCA testimony before the
National Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health
Q:\wp51
proposed by OSHA with areas of particular concern including: "For one,
OSHA is only inherent toxic properties and ignoring dosage,
duration and time of exposure in interaction other substances" and
urging deliberate at great length" over a definition of a
The its "go slow" approach to FDA regulations for
good practices. 37216). The continuous mechanism of the
Publications Program has resulted in the recent suspension from
first of suspensions in November, 1976, and that its Chemical
and powder have been withdrawn permanently. The concealed
approximately 500. 37217).
Meeting Minutes.
existence and activities of its various committees,
its Air Quality Committee, its Government Relations Committees,
Action distributed regionally around the country. He expressed
the report of its Air Quality Committee including the
relatively insensitive to changes in hydrocarbons and that hydrocarbons can
not be controlled sufficiently in most places to obtain the oxidant's standard.
Los Angeles is a prime example."
MCA that it had "been most active in testifying, writing and
visiting Congressmen and meeting their staffs to seek all the
The concealed its discussion of the EPA Study of Synthetic
Organic Chemical Industry and CMA's coordination regard
to a of about forty chemicals: "EPA states that synthetic organic
stationary sources. They state that control hinges primarily on proper plant
operation that will require depth of knowledge by EPA of our
operations that is unprecedented."
benzene was a significant hazard and carcinogen, resulting in the
group to handle this item alone." However, this is a product,
to EPA is being made on an individual company basis [as if MCA
were coordinating the violation of the anti-trustl. Eleven MCA member
are participating. 37241).
The concealed the existence of the Foster D. Snell, Inc.
Control Cost Study and resulting questionnaire it was funding:
"We've attempted anything this depth before, but then, we've never
before..." He says the study was "an eye-opener" and "will show we
have a good estimate on emissions on a number of sources; that likely the
total The CMA has that information such as this is not
likely to lead to discoverable evidence in this case, indicating a willful
"Scientific" Committee requiring "medical epidemiology input" as if it were a
peca?? "EPA is revising the six existing air qualities standards and will be
adding new ones. Our Committee will need medical epidemiology input if we
are to Unless you object, my intention of a nucleus medical of
from your companies determine the feasibility of a rebuttal.
The procedure is to use the OSHA standards and arbitrarily take a
of them and call this safe for the public. We will have to do
better than this for benzene, achrylinitride and eventually all the rest. We
would use your a forementioned medical representatives to guide
agencies are starting to note this." 37242). This is relevant and
not have been concealed.
makes and the material chose to produce, in the context it
shows to produce it, only created more questions than it answered.
Q:\wp51\Mollie\37096-37464
do not point this as a particularly "egregious" deletion. On the
other hand, it is as good as an example as any of the CMA's abuse of its
right to redact relevant information.
the reference to the board "adding a general council to
the MCA staff. Despite the strength of the present staff support, we
environmental lawyer is also hired." 37243).
In a concealed its Water Resources Committees'
the quality of the "legal services environmental committees:
response to regulatory proposals are in discussion of EPA's program
strategies. Several years ago, in an attempt to provide such service, the
MCA Board authorized the establishment of the Joint Subcommittee of the
Law ...However, other demand member companies'
time, this does not resolve the problem..." 37252).
concealed the concern of its Water Resources Committee a level of
its description of the EPA administrator Russell Train
as having "a strong environmentalist leaning which affected agency policy,
although in Rein by the recognition of economic realities by others in the Ford
and Nixon administrations. We fear that there may not be an equal
its staffs reports boasting of the "conspicuous role" it
all representatives of industry, in Washington, on March 22-23."
37256). concealed that "MCA has emphasized again the chemical
position that some provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970 are
leading our nation untimely and overly restrictive limitations on
strength' and George Polzer again presented the association views
before a Congressional unit, this time on March 11th to members of the
1970. George Polzer has presented testimony "before the Senate in
February." [Who is this George Polzer, who has "presented the associations'
views" on the amendments to the CAA of 1970.] (CMA 37257).
be resolved in favor of control, whether or not hearings and studies
an affirmative need for them." 37257).
an unreasonable risk public health" ..."regarding zero risks and
CMA says it is "less than of the problem" caused by
emissions, as opposed to "motor vehicles and fuel marketing."
