knowledge of production and use patterns, toxicologic proper­
ties, and the presence of arsenic In the environment.
"he carcinogenic effects of arsenic with Dr. HardlngBarlow.

8
Butylated Hydroxytoluene
The joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives re­
BHT, pending receipt of additional testing data.
EPA and the chlorobenzenes producers have agreed on a
Industry test program. The Toxicology Research Group
Foundation perform the cell assays and EPA Is In
agreement this recommendation. Requests for proposals to
conduct a two-generation reproduction study on monochloro­
benzene sent to five contract laboratories.
Ethylene (EDB)
The Brotherhood of Teamsters urged In a
2, 1981. petition that the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) Issue an emergency temporary
standard reducing the exposure for the fumigant
EDB. The Teamsters' petition claims that "three major studies"
show EDB be a potent carcinogen at levels far below those
allowed the present OSHA standard.
OSHA has been asked
to write an OSHA has no definitive plan of action until
it has more data.
considered. Dr. L. Vernon White of Great Lakes Chemical and
Mr. Mangham of Ethyl Corporation will attend an OSHA
meeting EDB on October 13 as Industry representatives.
Ethylene
clarify several questions relating the final report of the
chronic study conducted for the panel by Drs.
Maltonl and Spreaflco.
Ethylene Oxide
Council 28 companies and associations. The Scientific
Budgets and
proposals are be submitted the EOIC Executive Committee
Citizen Research Group and the American Federation of
State, and Municipal Employees to Issue an emergency
standard. Also OSHA stated that an advance notice of
proposed rulemaking (ANPR) woul-d be Issued.
Included In the
037803

denial a statement that regulation of sterllant and
pesticide end users of ethylene oxide would be under EPA's

a motion for injunctive relief In the DC District Court;
however, this has not occurred.
On 1, the Group did
basis the denial.

All 19 participating companies have committed to the
creased of $1.9 million for calendar year 1982.
There
tion of validity of the Ozone Depletion Theory will
diminish In the near future.
Four CMA representatives attended the Coordinating
Committee on the Ozone Layer at Copenhagen, Denmark, on October
Two task forces and the Fluorocarbon Program Panel
met In Rome, Italy the week of October 19, 1981.
A number of
visiting scientists participated in presentations and panel
discussions on atmospheric measurements techniques and results
and the status of atmospheric modeling.
J
time, to fund one-half the atmospheric lifetime experiment
(ALE) the next year (total cost approximately $400,000).
FPP will reallocate authorized funds to support the
whole program for the six months starting 11/1/81. -It Is
that the five ALE stations continue measurements
will testify on the state of the science before the

Glycol
The Is considering developing exposure data and has
begun a program NPCA and CSMA. The panel Is also
program EPA and/or OSHA.
Current advocacy activities
involve with NIOSH, ACGIH, and ECETOC.
ketones
The Is undertaking an advocacy program on four
ketones the ITC list:
The
program developing use and exposure as
well as a voluntary test program.
037804
i

A 90-day Inhalation study on methyl Isobutyl ketone
Is underway and reproduction and teratology studies
are consideration. The panel will follow closely
mentary testing on methyl ethyl ketone by and methyl
Isoamyl by Eastman Kodak. The panel met once EPA
on recommendations for ketones under Section 4(a) and
Is developing a document for submission to the Agency.
The
document will present summaries of toxicity data on the four
ketones and use and exposure
research program will also be Included.
Phosgene
Initial (Albert Einstein College of expo­
sure will begin In early November.
Three
safety and all the allied material pertinent were
approved by the Engineering and Safety Task Group and the panel
on 14 and IS, respectively.
Esters
Test Development Branch of EPA the voluntary test
program address potential health and environmental effects
TROB Is proceeding with
Agency of the program.
Dr. Deputy Administrator of EPA,
the of DEHP at this time.
Is
aimed at determining the cause of the bioassay results, will be
to FDA.
The hopes that FDA will accept the
program lieu of an Interim regulation or ban on DEHA.
FDA and scientists are exchanging views on the devel­
opment regulatory actions to assure public safety and the
use of an "Irreplaceable" substance In food contact
The PCB Panel Is preparing Its comments on several
to characterize the nature and scope of chloroblphenyls which are Incidentally generated by the chemical Indus­
try to the number of pieces of electrical equipment
which PCBs, the volume of PCBs and their concentration
ranges. form these surveys are In the analysis stage and
will be In the panel's submission to EPA.
An narrative dissertation describing the prob­
lems and costs associated low-level PCB analysis was
to EPA on August 25, 1981.


11
An round-robin testing program was Initiated
laboratories from member companies and EPA.
Its
purpose examine Invariability of results expected from
various
Rubber
The Additives Panel Is reviewing the final
The evaluated the genotoxlc properties of three commercial samples of the rubber
2-(Morphol1nothlo) benzothlazol esul fenamlde (MBS).
The will chemically analyze commercial mixtures of MBS to
evaluate the stability of the compound. The panel is currently
Investigating Initiating several other testing programs on
of the accelerator 2-(Morphol1nothlo) benzoth1azolesul fenamlde The panel will chemically analyze commercial
mixtures of to evaluate the stability of the compound. The
panel Is currently Investigating Initiating several other test­
ZDDPs by Ethyl were subject to a battery of
in vitro tests. Positive results In some of the assays were
obtained and Ethyl submitted the to EPA as an ad­
dendum to a previous TSCA Section report on possible
effects associated these chemicals.
Further
research on ZDDPs Is under con­
sideration by the Panel. Phase II of the program will examine
species differences respect to skin absorption of ZDDPs
and the of the rabbit as a model for testicular effects.

i

J
REPORT THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM

When Reagan made his public appeal last month on new
to reach his overall budget goals, he rejected delays in
any of recently enacted individual tax reductions. Instead,
bonds, to accelerate the quarterly payment of corporate income
taxes, to repeal and individual energy tax credits, and to
liminate the practice of allowing certain contractors to defer income
tax until the last year of a contract.
In
the President re-emphasized the need to enact legislation
for user fees on boats, barges, and private airplanes.
by the met strong opposition on Capitol Hill. Early
warning from Senate Finance Committee Chairman Bob Dole
indicated that at present a majority of the Senate would
prefer to postpone the effective date of the Reagan individual tax
custs from July to October, both in 1982 and in 1983, rather than
to adopt new taxes so near an election year. On the other hand, the
pressure from the economy to build before directly confronting the
For the the President's options appear to be limited in
interest
rates, flows to the Treasury, and inflation. At this writing,
ENERGY;
NATURAL GAS
position on natural gas deregulation is announced, it will include
a for accelerated phased decontrol of all natural
gas over a three year period. The present belief is that an
have considered by the Congress. General principles or guide­
lines legislation, however, may be provided to the Congress in
order to promote a hearing process this year. Congressional con­
sideration will also be influenced by the nearing of the 1982 elections.

hearings on wellhead prices for natural gas have
been by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
for 5 and 6. The hearings are expected to focus on
problems involved in implementing the Natural Gas Policy Act (NGPA)
broader gas issues, and has requested an opportunity
support to grow for the major elements of H.R. 4350,
offered Representative Phil Gramm (D-TX-6).
The and supporting information continues be
provided to key Administration officials and Congressional members.
to offer a natural gas issues briefing to member company
Washington representatives, possibly in November. A natural gas
ENERGY;

On 30, the Senate Energy and Natural Resourc s
completed markup of legislation designed to deal with a
by James A. McClure were included in
the version. The Standby Petroleum Allocation Act of 1981
would provide the President broad discretionary authorii
and a list of options in the event of a severe petroleum
priority provisions of the EPAA were added, including a provision
for petrochemicals. The is ready for Senate floor action and
activity could occur in late October.
Markup has been delayed' in the House Energy and Commerce Sub­
on Fossil and Synthetic Fuels, and probably will not be
R. Sharp die
a bill, H.R. 4700, in many respects to the unamem
Senate The Standby Authority Petroleum Allocation Act of
but require adoption of regulations consistent the
specified in the old EPAA.
that no is necessary and that free market forces can
best allocate resources.
the CMA effort will be to assure recognition of a high
priority for feedstocks, as in the Senate
CLEAN ACT AMENDMENTS
The Reagan Administration is beginning provide some of the
momentum necessary for amendment of the Clean Air Act.

3
In late September, President Reagan reaffirmed "the Adminis­
keen Interest In Congress make much needed
corrections the Clean Air Act this year", In a letter to Senate
Majority Leader Howard Baker and to House Minority Leader Robert Michel.
priority in the area of regulatory and changes in the Act
Since Vice President Bush has begun selectively con­
tacting of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee
and the Energy and Commerce Committee to encourage development
by EFA Administrator Anne Gorsuch in early August.
Senator T. Stafford Chairman of the Senate Committee,
now has working to develop consensus and legislative language
new pace could be a reflection of the fact that Stafford has just
he is running for re-election, and thus seeks closer ties
with the Administration.
On 13, representatives met the Senate Committee
staff to discuss recently released draft legislative language. Our
Det rioration proposals, but we focused primarily on the
Air Pollutants porgram proposals (Section 112).
In the House, there has been little movement toward the drafting
Chairman John D. (D-MI-16) and Ranking Minority Leader
James T. Broyhill (R-NC-10). Industry hopes to generate interest in
the hearings in the Subcommittee on Health and the
which are scheduled through November 9.
ments of the Clean Air Act will be delivered at hearings of the
on all recommended revisions will be submitted for
Our Air Act legislative program continues to include
active participation in a broad coalition organized to
work for amendments this year. We helped develop the coalition's
document detailing 12 basic areas of necessary change in
the Act "make it work". We are cooperating in sharing the document
with members and staff in order to show industry unity

4
Further, as part of our objective to generate both public
the Air Act, a "Action Advisory" was issued on September 2$
to all companies, urging: contact Senators and
groups; and, encouragement of others to help carry the message.
Rep. Moffett September 10 sent a letter to
your not to issue a national groundwater strategy at this
time." Moffat's main concern is that the Administration will not
continue working on a National Groundwater Policy Guidance Docum nt.
i
In the past, Moffett has threatened to introduce federal
to regulate groundwater if a National Policy was not
within EPA. Moffet's Subcommittee on Environment, Energy
will an oversight hearing October 21, 1981 discuss
and issues.
CLEAN ACT
Committee completed work on H.R. 4503 (Roe, to authorize for
one 1982) $2.4 billion for the sewage treatment construction
It was expected that Rep. Jim Oberstar would
offer amendment that would extend the 1984 date for achieving
Best Technology (BAT).
1
The Water Act Task Group of the Government Relations
Committee, expressed the following concerns with the Oberstar
of the Water Act in 1982.
These needs go far beyond a simple extension of
we support an extension of the 1984 BAT date,
we have a deep concern that the inclusion of such
view of 3 and 4 next year.

1234
037816

r
an
d
The Group contacted key members of the Public Works
but the grants bill, H.R. 4503, could be brought to
the floor by the end of October, and Mr. Oberstar is considering
amendment at that time. The Task Group will be expressing
key members of the House, and stressing the need for
completed its work on the construction grants bill, S. 1274. During
the the Committee voted unanimously to repeal the Industrial
Cost provision (the so-called Stafford Amendment).
submitted a letter supporting the repeal of ICE to all members of
has been granted the right to intervene in the New Jersey
General's lawsuit on pre-emption against the Federal
Government. Judge Flannery of the U.S. District Court for the
of Columbia will now hear the Federal Government's motion
of Engineers be used to assist in the cleanup of
became concerned about the use of the Corps for cleanup and asked
for its views.
In a letter to David Stockman dated
15, CMA strongly supported the use of private contractors
in the and construction work required under Superfund. CMA
said Corps presently does not have the experience*or trained
that will be necessary to conduct the remedial cleanup
program called for in Superfund.
Rep. Florio held an oversight hearing on the Superfund law
July 29, before his Subcommittee on Commerce, Transportation and
Tourism of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. During the
hearing, Florio developed a discussion on joint and several liability
with Gorsuch and Department of Justice's Carol that
to confuse the issues. therefore felt it necessary
several liability. We contend that the failure of Congress to pro­
were critized by Senator Robert Stafford in the Congres­
sional Record of September 9.
037817

has learned that a draft of proposed interpretative
within the Internal Revenue Service. We anticipate that
the regulations will be moving forward from the to
the Treasury Department within the next few weeks.
TRADE;
EXPORT,OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
on February 17, 1981 proposals for changes in existing
notification systems for exports of substances. A
large of pesticide exports would be most affected along
with eventually to be restricted under TSCA. The Reagan
Administration has dropped any plans for control or prohibition of
such as provided for in President Carter's executive order
which Reagan subsequently revoked.
Since February, the Commerce and State Departments have en­
countered disagreements in writing the joint response. The most
serious difference of opinion is through what channels information
is passed from the U.S. exporter the country receiving the
U.S. of the receiving country. Another issue in the joint,
will be whether recommendations are made to amend appro- t
priate sections of existing and TSCA laws. The position)
that should not be amended for this purpose has been strongly?
by our spokesmen.
The has worked closely with government officials during
this of evaluation. Close liaison with -the National
Chemicals Association and the Pharmaceutical Manufac­
turers has been maintained and a fully coordinated
maintained.
comment on the final draft before it is approved by an interagency^

trade with Mexico and Canada. Tensions Canada ;
over its National Energy Flan and the Federal Investment Review Act
and Mexico on a number of issues have served to heighten the '
The President made a report to Congress on a North American t»
union July 26. His visits with Mexican President Lopez Portillo
and Canadian Prime Minister Trud au have been only preliminaries but


7
grows that Mexico and Canada are seeking duty free access
to the petrochemical market. The Administration has stated
that it wishes to free up markets and trade flows. It is likely
that agreements will eventually be made. U.S.
exports to Canada in 1980 were $2.1 billion and to Mexico,
is close liaison a Senate Caucus and a
been to U.S. Trade Representative Brock by Mr. Leo Johnstone,
Petroleum Company. The letter emphasizes the chemical
stake in a trade arrangement, and requests that the industry
b kept of developments affecting chemicals in the hope that
Various pieces of legislation in the Congress dealing
government policy have been introduced but are not likely
to see action soon.
SEMINAR PLANNED
hold a seminar at the Marriott Hotel, 22nd and M Streets,
D.C. Milt Hunt, of the will preside.
of interest to chemical companies will be covered thoroughly
will be an introductory overview by Leo Johnstone, Executive
Vic - Phillips Petroleum Company. Ambassador Sill Brock
will at a dinner December 8.
details and a registration form will be widely
on October 23.
On 29 the House approved H.R. 3495, the Energy and
Committee reauthorize TSCA for two years at a
funding level of $62 million (plus $1.5 million for state programs).
S. passed by the Senate last May, would reauthorize TSCA for
one at $59.6 million. A Conference is expected to resolve the
to respond to Congressman Florio's staff in their efforts
037819

study the adequacy of the PMN test data, although the letter
requesting to begin work has not been sent.
In the
is working with EPA to produce a viable PMN exemption:
policy new, low risk chemicals under section of TSCA,
as well as the negotiations between the U.S. and regarding
to remedy chemical industry concerns.
On 23 Senator Paula Hawkins' Oversight and
Subcommittee began long awaited hearings on OSHA
and recommendations for the future. Thorne Auchter was commended
for his efforts to the Agency away from its previous
what he perceived be an "emasculation" of worker protections
but on whole, Auchtdr stood up well to the questioning and made
The Administration will not be moving toward legislative
change this area until other priorities are handled and there
has an opportunity determine which administrative
the of developing recommendations for OSHA reform at the
time.
HAZARDS COMMUNICATIONS/LABELING
its hearings on OSHA's withdrawal of its proposed hazards
Master testified against the original proposed OSHA stands
from a chemical company standpoint, providing detail as to ho*
The hearings have been scheduled for November 3, at which OSHA!
Thorne will testify on labeling as well as other matters
within framework of OSHA oversight.
and to Subcommittee members responsive industry positio
in of a new performance-oriented, cost effective and
reasonable hazards communications standard.
On 24 the House nee Subcommittee on Res arch and.
Technology, chaired by Doug Walgren held a hearing on
037820

Don Risk Analysis Research and
and demonstration program under the direction of the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy. It would authorize
$1.7 million for a two-year government R & D program to improve
risk analysis techniques in regulatory decisionmaking, and a twoyear risk analysis study by regulatory agencies and the National
Science Foundation.
in favor of the were Congressman Jim Martin
Congressman Attorney Michael Baram, and Brookings'
White House Task Force on Regulatory Relief, testified on behalf of
the Dr. Miller agreed with the goals and concepts of
the but could not give it official support. In
within OMB (i.e., the Task Force on Regulatory
without additional appropriations.
TRANSPORTATION:
The Senate and House that reauthorize and
action. H.R. 3403 is scheduled for October and S. 960 should
be on by the end of October. CMA is exploring the possibilities
of hazardous materials transportation laws. There is also
a possibility of efforts to add undesirable floor amendments.
TRANSPORTATION:
RAILROAD DEREGULATION
Science and Transportation Committee for November 10. Th
session. CMA is in the process of preparing comments to be submitted
for the record and may present testimony.
TRANSPORTATION:
REFORM
being considered. Hearings were held in late September before the
037821

Senate Science and Transportation Subcommittee on
Marine. presented testimony on S. 1593, a
by Chairman Slade Gorton (R-Wash.) and filed a supplemental
witness. Activity has also begun in the House Merchant Marine
for October 7, 13, and 19. is preparing to file a
end of October.
TRANSPORTATION t
There is increasing interest in legislation dealing the
inland system and harbors and ports. User fees are a
major of President Reagan's proposals, and
is being introduced to permit authorities to collect us
fees to repay improvement and development costs. Proposals are bei
and hearings could be announced in both the Senate and
House. CMA is working a coalition of organizations as the
issues and timetables unfold.
is actively seeking passage of regulatory reform
legislation. Cooperating with allied groups behind the
leadership of the Roundtable, CMA has assisted in the
Paul Laxalt (R-Nev.). The focus has been to secure amend­
ments would provide that "good science" be considered a prin­
cipal factor in the regulatory decision-making process.
S. has been reported amendments by both the Senate
Judiciary Committee and the Senate Government Affairs Committee.
CMA's "good science" amendments. CMA is working to assure that a
In the House, the Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative

u

OF THE PATENT
restore to the term of a patent grant the period during which
ne d to secure Federal regulatory approval.
The on this subject are S. 255 and
H.R. 1937 (Kastinmeier-D-Wis.) and they are substantially similar.
Th Senate passed in July. The House Judiciary Subcommittee
on Liberties, and the Administration of Justice began
its hearings on this subject in September and held subsequent hearings
in October.
is working in a coalition under the leadership of
the Manufacturers' Association to secure passage.

UNIFIED OF APPEALS
On October 14, 1981, the House Judiciary Committee favorably
amendments, H.R. 4482, a establish a
court of patent appeals. This may be taken up on the House
floor suspension of the rules within the next few weeks.
by the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, October 20. The key
issu at that time will be a proposed amendment by Senator Baucus
to allow the present Federal Circuit Courts of Appeal to
retain jurisdiction over patent appeals. CMA is working closely in
the coalition of allied interests in support of s..
and in opposition the Baucus amendment.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE:
DEVELOPMENTS
At its September 17 meeting, the State Affairs Special Committee
air surface water issues at the state level. This paralleled a
briefing on Federal Superfund made at the
prior

ISSUE TASK
approved by the Executive Committee and Board at their Septemb r
meeting, the committee addressed its legislative and regulatory
priorities for 1982. This process began with the distribution
of a issues survey which canvassed all member companies,
staff, and key technical committees. Based upon the results
of the more than 100 responses received, the committee established
issue groups in the following areas:
e
e
e
e
Hazardous Waste Disposal (Superfund and Siting)
Hazards Communication (Right-to-Know)
Hazardous Materials Transportation
(Air and Water Quality)
Within its assigned subject area, each issue task group will:
e
e
e
e
e
the introduction and progress of State
where appropriate Association policy does not
exist, work technical and functional

through member companies and appropriate
local seeks to coordinate industry
support, through the State Affairs Special
in to assure a consistent Federal/State policy.
meetings were held so that issue task groups could
address any remaining 1981 legislative and/or regulatory
proposals, review 1981 activity, establish contact the corresp<
develop procedures and assign responsibilities for informat:
and discuss advocacy mechanisms and coalitions. Issu task
groups will continue these meetings through the fall to prepare for
the of the 1982 legislative sessions.
FUNCTIONAL TASK
The State Affairs Special Committee established two functional
state

e
e
serve as the forum for the periodic screening
and selection of vendors of electronic legis­
lative and regulatory tracking services;
monitor the performance of the contracting
and serve as a liaison between the
chemical industry subscribers and the elec­
tronic services suppliers;
sessions for member company personnel on
This task group the efforts of an ad hoc group of chemical
industry companies who contracted with an electronic state and
regulatory tracking service for 1981. these contracts expiring
at end of December, the task group has been engaged in selecting
an vendor for 1982. This process is now complete and
contracts are expected to be signed in early November. In addition,
the task group is actively encouraging additional member companies

regulatory matters for the chemical industry. The Network Task
Group wills
e
e
e
by drawing upon the resources of CMA member
and Industry Councils, develop a
of personnel to provide the basis
for intelligence gathering and advocacy

and associations facilitate the
of and the coordination
provide through its personnel register, additional
their delivery capabilities;
seek enhance the effectiveness and influence
of chemical industry in the various states
focal points for local efforts.
037826

meet members of the various CIC's. During Septembex
and were visited.
1981 ACTIVITY WINDING DOWN
The vast majority of state legislatures have adjourned for
the year only a few of the major industrial states remaining
in session. A few states are in special session considex
some activity this fall in several states on two of our priority
On September 24, Governor Brown signed into law SB 618 which
Starting three widely divergent sponsored by
competing interests, the final product reflects significant
success on the part of the chemical industry. Although some of the
version is much more reasonable than the radical proposal
by the Brown administration and its environmental supports
On whole, industry worked closely and effectively on this issue.
the services of its legal staff to assist in draftin'
during late June and early July. Also, the California
has decided to establish a permanently staffed office.
In Jersey, discussions are continuing concerning proposed
Federal Superfund. Complicating these discussions
are lawsuits brought by five New Jersey companies (Exxon, Tennec
BF Goodrich, Monsanto and Union Carbide) in New Jersey, and by the
State of New Jersey against EFA in Washington in which interv net
is by Federal Superfund. It is still possible that the
New Jersey Legislature will take up this subject in lame duck sessior
in has worked closely during the past several months
both the and the litigants group to keep all parties fully

were held on September 15 in Madison, Wisconsin, on
AB 615 which is sponsored by Assemblywoman Muntz.
to that its most damaging provisions are not passed.

On the municipal level, Cincinnati, Ohio scheduled hearings
in October on an ordinance that is potentially very unfavorable
to industry. Santa Monica, California, is also moving on a
K
037827
