H
TO BOARD DIRECTORS
James McKee Jr., Chairman
Public Relations Committee
22, 1976
Th hazards of holding the same office for two years are obvious.
In the Public Relations Committee report covered two main
points for future action:
1. we would focus more sharply on major opportunities as well
as the larger problems of the chemical industry, and
2. we would establish closer relationships other functional
areas of MCA so a more meaningful contribution to the industry's
total could be made.
These have been done.
The on the chemical industry by media and government in
the 12 months have made it imperative.
In the
Toxic Legislation demonstrated what can be accomplished
interaction of functions when proper leadership is provided.
'Spurred by today's public demands and the proof that joint committee
action can get things done, the Public Relations Committee stepped
tip practice of meeting with the leadership of certain other
functional committees, particularly Government Relations, Technical
and Advisory.
This was started about 18 months ago to gain a better perspective
we can have a common purpose and pursuit. We have agreed
These are human health and the environment, and increasing govern­
ment which erode industry's management of its resources.
committees.
The plan was proposed by a chairman of our committee, Ned
of Dow, and adopted at our September meeting. Most of the
These committees are Quality, Water Resources, Solid Waste,
Occupational Health, Government Relations, Legal Advisory and
Regulations Advisory.
of those committees and the public relations committee to stimulate
on the public issues.
Each committee will be asked to provide basic facts and a statement
position on their function as related to govern­
ment, health and environment. The Air Quality Committee, for
about air pollution, and provide the industry position on current
Members of the task force would serve as coordinators of the project
in leading cities where maximum exposure to our point of, 6
view be gained. We have in mind prestigious platforms like the
Club of Detroit, with accompanying appearances on local
radio and TV plus newspaper interviews.
The task force would be responsible for placing industry material
in hands of selected spokesmen, coordinating appearances on a
geographic basis and making sure that the load was properly spread
among the member companies.
Each would develop his topic in his own way, weaving in
of MCA, supported by other chief executive officers not
will gained as we build up this corps of spokesmen. MCA has a
constant need for industry experts who can provide statements and
make appearances on relatively short notice.
News as you know, will use responses to issues and handle
"the other side's" position when the story is breaking.
There is
It's either
We to get this plan underway in early 1977.
It without saying that all on-going PR programs are being
will be addressed.
CMA
I
ChemEcology will expand further its coverage of member company
success stories in the areas of environment and toxic substances.
contributions by the chemical industry emphasis on
and environmental protection.
MCA News will continue to report on industry and company programs
in key public issues so that good ideas can be shared across
the
company plants which have achieved goals in energy conservation.
This program, of course, could demonstrate MCA's dedication
conservation and show that even without a national energy
participating in MCA activities in six companies and the
staff of MCA. That panel has now grown to 19
which we base our forward planning we share with you today.
of this year's environmental and energy issues. Water and
air pollution legislation will doubtless take over the spotlight
occupied by toxic substances.
in food and
packaging will join other lurking problems like pesticides
to keep all of us busy. We must be prepared to answer our critics,
to itemize consequences of tradeoffs and to accentuate the positive
