evident in visits, release of the energy security study was
delayed for months to consider additional input, implying a
possible shift in emphasis.
In addition to work on energy taxes, SEAG also accomplished the
following:
At the request of the Executive Committee, prepared a study of
billion/year cost increase the chemical industry for steam,
process energy and electricity. This study was used by in the
congressional on acid rain legislation;
duplicative reporting;
Addressed proposed fuel use and natural gas legislative issues;
and,
natural gas transportation and preferential treatment of
interstate pipeline marketing affiliates.
1987 Outlook
Increase in Energy Activity.
In 1987 energy issues will be more
active in both legislative and regulatory arenas. This increase in
activity is for the following reasons:
. The high priority of energy-related environmental
issues, (such as acid
. Increasing U.S. dependency on foreign energy sources;
. of the U.S. trade balance and,
Key Issues. As mentioned earlier, oil and gas costs are more than
25% of final product costs, which is the highest of all
manufacturing Any actions that raise oil and gas costs by
such a level a great impact on the chemical industry. As an
then oil and costs would Increase $5 billion/year. Key Issues that
may affect energy and petrochemical feedstock costs are listed below:
. Oil Import and Energy Security. The primary energy
issue will be oil import taxes and energy security measures.
CMA 038732
Relative in domestic and foreign oil and gas costs are
chemical
. Energy Cost Impact of Environmental Regulation. Energy cost
is also a major consideration in the
controls.
. Natural Gas Issues. Regulatory changes affecting cost,
supply and access transportation of natural gas will continue
productivity lost lower current energy costs.
CMA needs to be prepared to show that the industrial energy
conservation has not been lost even though 1986
legislation has eliminated the industrial energy conservation
reporting program.
feedstocks they are of substantial significance
and the competitiveness and long term viability of our
industry. trade legislation and regulations must be
reviewed by SEAG (in coordination with International Trade
Committee) to assess the economic impact of energy cost changes
related to
SEAG and Resources.
In 1986, SEAG operated minimal
other outside support, SEAG has operated efficiently, but in view of
renewed Congressional interest in energy taxes and other energy issues,
the current resources will likely not be adequate to meet the needs
of the
In addition, the group effort has been tied
economic studies prepared in 1985 and 1986. These studies must
be updated to be relevant in the 1987 energy debate.
Action None at this time - for information only.
Issue
potential resource requirements will be submitted to
the Finance Committee for its consideration respect to the 1987/88
operations of SEAG,
CMA
CMA 038733
G
OF THE CHAIRMAN
the
CMA Board of
January 26,
1987
by the Board of Directors in 1985.
On behalf of Executive
Committee and Board, and in conjunction standing
committees, helps ensure that all Special Programs are
conducted in a manner consistent Association policy and
the Programs Guidelines.
It also
Special Programs regarding the appropriateness of current
policy and reviews reports and recommendations from
SPPC for changes of
policy are to the Executive Committee and Board of
Directors, the for final approval and action.
In the past year, SPPC has received no requests from
Special Program panel chairmen review current policy.
To
its SPPC plans to meet in the next few months
a representative group of panel chairmen.
The purpose of
the meeting be to solicit the views on adequacy
and of current policy provisions.
In the past no conflicts between conduct of

In our Program actions and policy remain
in concert.
Based on observations, we conclude that the
uation of oversight mechanism.
remind the of its suggestion in 1980, that all
product consortia be chartered under the umbrella a trade
association.
uity, consistency of position, and litigation plans
tion with a trade association more effectively shields consortia
from implications of antitrust violations than does ad hoc status,
and thereby protect member companies,
product consortia now affiliate with a trade association, there
remain a few that do not. Membership in each of these
hoc
croups CMA member companies.
We ask that evaluate
bring the aa hoc consortia into an association.
CMA
CMA 038734
H
Trade Committee
Annual Board of Directors
January 26,
is affected by policies of both U.S. and foreign governments.
CMA's Trade Committee devotes the majority of Its efforts
to analyzing issues affecting trade related matters, alerting members to
these and position papers for Board approval that will
help government trade and investment policies which affect the
competitiveness of the U.S. chemical Industry. Both the
Administration and the Congress have indicated that, during 1987, much
attention emphasis is going to be placed on the competitiveness of all
domestic in the international marketplace. This emphasis will
third world debt and others that may be adversely affecting the international
of many domestic companies faced with increasing U.S. imports
to favorably influence the effect of such changes on the U.S. chemical
industry.
TRADE HIGHLIGHTS AN*D COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IX 1986
Trade
divided on most major trade issues In 1986. As a result of this division (and
more pressing matters like elections and tax no new major
trade legislation or was enacted. There was a lot of Congressional
Committee Staff work on H.&. 4300 and S. 1860, including a number of
Committee Hearings, but only the House passed an omnibus Trade
The Finance Committee did not act on H.R. 4800, but used
S. 1860 and a later Committee Staff draft for purposes of some 9 separate
hearings. Senate Finance Committee did narrowly approve negotiating
authority the USTR. to negotiate Canada on a proposed Bilateral Free
Trade Agreement. Ocher relevant trade highlights and initiatives taken during
1986
U.S. trade for 1986 is at about $165 billion, a $15 billion
increase the $150 billion deficit in 1985.
U.S. chemical industry trade surplus is estimated be up about 5Z,
in 1985. for 1986 indicate a 1986 chemical trade surplus of
CMA 038735

Trade Committee
TRADE HIGHLIGHTS AND MAJOR COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 1986
Trad* (continued)
tan tha aiseallanaous tariff package includad in H.R.
and S. vara for chamicals.
Tax Customs Users Faa, Port tax, and Suparfund tax on imports
of covarad and cartain darivativas (cradlt to tha import
taxpayar if axports ara mada) vara all in legislation anactad during
1986 that has international trade ramifications.
Industry Advisory Committees (ISAC's) vara recharterad in
April, 1986.
Saptambar,
Annual CSP Review chat includes petitions affecting chemicals, began
in July, A notice of changes will be announced in April, 1987.
Two-year CSP Review of overall program, that may Include withdrawal of
certain GS? benefits countries like Brazil, Hong Kong, Mexico,
South Korea, and Taiwan vas completed in December, 1986. Changes to
be in January, 1987.
4
The Administration (USTR) initiated 6 cases under Section 501 of U.S.
4
others were implemented during 1986.
4
Accession Spain and Portugal into the European Community
This action has caused considerable dispute between the U.S. and EC on
what trade concessions the EC should give the U.S. to
compensate EC tariff rates chat will Increase because of the
Spanish and Portuguese accession.
4
Mexico GATT.
4
PRC applied for GATT membership.
4
GATT (92 countries) agree to start new MIN Round to be
called the Uruguay Round. The GATT Ministerial Declaration Issued in
September, to commence the Uruguay Round contains all the major
agenda (17) that the United States sought to have Included.
4
Initial of GATT signatory representatives began in October,
CMA 038736
International Trad* Committee
TRADE HICHLICHTS AND MAJOR COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 1986
The ITC and lea cask groups wars vary acelva la 1986 on many bllaearal
and erada lsauas. In addlelon co eha monthly ITC maaelngs, tha
ITC task groups mac a total of 17 elaas l joint maaelngs, and eha
of an OCITA sponsored seminar on the GATT Uruguay MTN Round. Tha majority of
support and cooperation of Q1A scaff, cantered on trade issue related matters
including:
Preparation of a legislative language proposal to incorporate CMA's
position on new GATT (Uruguay) MTN Round respect to tariff
and Import sensitive products;
of CMA/0C1TA position on MTN co Che Congressional
Committees for trade matters;
of CMA/OCITA position on U.S.-Canada FTA the
8
of CMA/OCITA position on a U.S.-Canada Free Trade
Agreement to Che Office of U.S. Trade Representative;
8
8
of a tariff rate concordance for U.S. and ocher major
8
Developed of economic factors chat will be considered by the
nominees for tariff-cut exemption from MTN be submitted in connection
Uruguay Round;
tariff-cut exemption/import sensitive chemical products;
Began work on the development of CMA position papers for important
trade related Issues connected to multilateral and bilateral trade
agreements in addition certain needed revisions Co current U.S.
trade lav, i.e. Trade Modules (see Task Croup reports);
9
Annual ITC Planning Conference in September, 1986;
for sponsored seminar in October, 1986 on
GATT Uruguay MTN Round;

Executive
INTERNATIONAL TRADE HIGHLIGHTS AMP MAJOR COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 1986
of chamical industry commancs on evo saparaca draft
upcoming invastigacions coneaming tha
compatitlvanass of tha U.S. pacroehamlcal industry* and tha
inspactlon practices and custom valuation procedures
parformad tha U.S. prior to shipment* on behalf of 24 foreign
trada in advocating approved positions to the
certain benefits countries not providing adequate protection
for property righrs, and legislative proposal to
implement an administrative procedure for U.S. companies to obtain
temporary duty suspensions, that would be an alternative procedure
to the legislative process.
Kept companies completely informed of actions they could
take with to proposed changes in the GS? program, and
presentation of requests regard to the U.S.-Canada FTA.
OUTLOOK INTERNATIONAL TRADE ACTIVITIES IS 1987
Trade and the 100th Congress
All indicate chat trade legislation will be one of the first
priorities of the 100th Congress. It is reported that both the House and
very early. The House has indicated that the new Omnibus Trade
Bill will be almost the same as H.R. and has tentatively been assigned
H.R. 3 in Che 100th Congress. The Senate Finance Committee, under
its new Senator Bencsen* and the Trade Subcommittee under its new
Spark Matsunaga, have also given indications that new Senate
modified by the Committee Staff draft in late 1986, and will be introduced in
January, 1987. Senator Bentsen has already announced that the Finance
Committee will hold hearings in February, 1987 on international trade Issues
chat focus on a U.S. response to the current trade deficit. Hew trade
legislation is likely to include:
Trade Negotiating Authority: The Office of the United States Trade
Representative has indicated it wants a separate for such
authority. Current authority expires January 3, 1988.
CMA 038738
Summary
International Trade Committee
OUTLOOK FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE ACTIVITIES IN 1987
FTA: Legislative authority on adoption (fast track basis)
is needed in 1987 if FTA is concluded Canada.
Oil Import Taxi Senator Bentsen may push for such a tax, but only if
Foreign Market Access: Authority retaliate against countries which
to their markets.
Foreign Trade Surpluses: Authority retaliate against
countries considered to have large and unwarranted trade surpluses
the States.
The Proposed Harmonized System of Tariff Schedules:
authority for adoption is needed in 1987.
Competitiveness Councils; Advisory groups composed of
representatives of labor, management, consumers, communities and
officials to develop adjustment plans for Industries
affected rapidly growing, but otherwise fairly traded, imports.
Natural To define foreign governments' granting of
subject countervailing duty.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA);
rules and make more workable.
Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930: Revision to remove the
in order exclude imports of products mads in foreign countries
patented process technology.
and Countervailing Duty Law: Changes to include
the injury standard and shortening the time process.
products are available from foreign sources.
to relax accounting
A separate effort might be made to re-enact the manufacturing clausa,
efforts to obtain Improved protection for U.S. intellectual property rights in
A new effort may also be made to codify the draft Federal Policy on the
Export of Hazardous Substances. Enactment will continue be difficult.

Summery
OUTLOOK TRADE ACTIVITIES IN 1987
Focus of Committee Activities
The ITC continue to concentrate Its primary efforts on the trade
for 1987. Clearly, a major impact on the chemical industry in 1987
could be the short and long term implications of a FTA with Canada
and legislatively authorized for implementation. A failure on the
part of U.S. and Canada to get a mutually beneficial FTA negotiated in
As both U.S.-Canada FTA and Uruguay Round negotiations begin in 1987,
the ITC continue development of position papers (trade modules) to
for CMA approval and advocacy on trade issues chat may affect the
chemical industry. Each of the trade modules we have, and will continue to
develop, are primarily intended to provide with appropriate responses to
trade position inquiries. These inquiries have, and are likely
continue to come from Che Congress and the Administration on important issues
that are surely to be contained in Che U.S.-Canada FTA and MTN Uruguay Round,
ir. the 100th Congress. The trade-related issues, as trade modules
or trade lav revisions, chat the ITC is currently include:
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
Expansion of Approved Principles concerning MTN and U.S.-Canada FTA
Rules of Origin for U.S.-Canada FTA
Rules of Origin Revisions for GATT
Dispute Settlement Provision for U.S.-Canada FTA
Dispute Settlement Revisions for GATT
bilateral Investment Treaty Principles for the PRC
Bilateral Trade Negotiations Principles for Mexico
Section 201 - Escape Clause
Section 301 - Unfair Trade Practices
Section 337 - Intellectual Property
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
issues could affect their and improve the ability and
of its members to assist CMA in responding to inquiries about
Issues will include:
CMA
OUTLOOK TRADE ACTIVITIES IN 1987
Focus Committee Activities, continued
In, and/or appropriate coverage of Congressional
on trade Issues;
In hearings and In questionnaire development, along with
interface vlth U.S. government representatives responsible for
trade at USTR, DOC, State and Treasury;
Open Meeting on March 18, 1987 in Chicago vlth theme of
Joint in Washington on April l, 1987;
9
Joint vlth CCPA in Canada to be scheduled, as appropriate,
9
Annual ITC Planning Conference on May 1987;
needed trade and economic data emphasize and support
trade positions;
Close and active role the OCITA's Advisory Committee
in the chemical industry's positions on trade Issues.
The will continue its efforts to stress the Importance of
ITC to keep abreast of international trade events, legislation, administrative
policies, positions and support of trade related Issues.
CMA

I
TABLE OF
OF THE PRESIDENT
III.
1
2
2
3
4
ISSUES AND PROGRAMSTATUS
5
7
8
10
12
15
17
18
21
24
26
27
29
30
31
31
33
34
DEPARTMENTAL
33
40
40
40
CMA
CMA 038742
OF THE PRESIDENT
ASSOCIATION AND REPORT
A.
the Presidency and the Senate. As the 100th Congress
to convene on January we will return to a more familiar
of government a Republican White House and a Democrat controlled Congress.
Republicans and Democrats moved quickly to reelect their current
for another two years. Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd
(D-WV) has stated that after Congress convenes, Senate Democrats will
legislative work January 12, breaking recent Congressional
of waiting until after the President's State of the Union
