servation Reporting Program recommending that DOE not
make technical changes to the reporting methodology that
would be costly to members, and that DOE delete ambiguous parts of the report.
further improvements.
As part of the comments to the omb on paperwork reduction, also recommended that new data collection initiatives he subject to a public hearing process, and that
survey respondents be the option of reporting
through a trade asso.ciation to assure greater confiden­
tiality protection.

l
i
I
i
I
Coda
comments on preprinting the 1984 National Electrical
Code.
National

EAC on eight standards
National Standards.

for

as
NFPA Standards Council
asked the NFPA Standards Council to return proposed
requirements to committee because of the
needless heavy expense to industrv.
ISO Standards
EAC views on ISO chemical pump
tion the ns Technical Advisory Group.
WEALTH,
PMN Rules
Clay B.
express CMA's concern

few will use it.
On 4, filed comments on these proposed rules.
EPA that the low-volume site-limited proposal would benefit the industry.
I


The Association proposed a clarification of the industry
expert's role.
major modifications
to the proposal.
The Association commented that
process according to broad categories based on average
molecular weight.
fits of the proposed PMN exemption rules to various
ences.
The includes meetings with the
press, and distributing a comprehensive information pack­
age to trade associations and the press.
was the spokesman.
points in its comments and addressed specific con­
cerns raised by the Natural Resources Defense Council and
EPA questions and assertions made by public interest
groups at the November 1, EPA public hearing.
In these
comments CMA provided further justification for relaxing
the PMN exemption proposal for polymers.
Meeting
the proposed PMN exemption rules and the final
TSCA and reporting rules.

mately people attended the meeting.
Workshop on Data
Quality Indicators
The report of the Workshop on Oata Duality indica­
tors was completed in October.
the work­
shop in cooperation the National Academy of
ces, the Federation of American Societies for Experimen­
Copies of the report
can be for $5.00 from CMA.
TSCA
Rule
a extension of the reporting period for the TSCA
Section rule.
EPA to deny this generic
Instead, the Agency chose to consider individual
company requests.
encouraged its member compan­
ies to individual requests for extensions.
EPA
has extensions for many of those requests.

Planning
Each
member issues of interest his/her company
the regulation of chemicals and product safety.
the and the Association.
year.
or promised responses, to the CMA
company activities to reduce unreasonable risk
about
survey
now total
to Know Activities
issues, the last insertion in the to Know
Packet, was completed December 2, 1982.
The to
local Industry Councils.
on Reproduction Risks
The OSH Committee is planning a two-day conference on
Risks, be held in the spring of 1983.
will be limited to CMA members.
will
survey scientific and legal framework within which
Repre­

Access
to
Records
to Employee Records [47 PR 30420, Julv 13, 19821.
Access
OSHA on October 26, 1982.
Hazards Communications
1, 1982.

Cancer
Policy
on an earlv draft of Part I National
Cancer Policy, from the Office of Science and Technology
Policy were submitted December 3, 1982.

all, we believe it is an excellent document.
OSHA Proposal on Benchmarks
for
with Agency's intent to state funds to permit
for the federal government in each state.
Regulatory Impact Analysis
The
EPA to use realistic data and not try to quan­
Policy Model
RISC an in-depth review of EPA's RCRA risk/cost
policy
The is intended to help EPA set
waste management priorities and select strategies for
waste streams.
Arsenic
plans to complete the analysis of the remaining data from
Extend­
the analysis would increase considerably the statis­
tical power of the earlier conclusion that there is no
respiratory cancer risk associated arsenic
below 500 /ig/m^.
sure a presumed carcinogen.
OSHA join
in the analysis and to postpone conclusion of
results are available.
Benzene
benzene toxicology study under the auspices of CMA and
API. A final report is under review.

f
outside counsel and to meet to discuss the pro­
The and counsel
will with a representative of the Joint
Expert on Food Additives to determine
what if any, the Panel should take in sDonsorina
to address concerns.

a final report on a paradichlorobenze n e
(PDCB) teratology study in rabbits.

to 0, 100, 300, or 800 ppm PDCB was not embryotoxic or
in this species.
The was the last in a
series of teratology studies on chlorobenzenes conducted
by the Dow Toxicology Research Laboratory,
Epoxy
I
use, exposure, environmental release and
health information in order to work with EPA to
develop a reasonable regulatory response to the ITC
Oxide
EPA a study plan for voluntary testing of
ethylene oxide
alkyl recommended by the ITC for testing under
The plan outlines a program
to evaluate possible reproductive effects and
cytogenetic changes associated with exposure to
Group/OSHA lawsuit.
Notice of
making scheduled for June 1883.
in
Citizen Health
Rule-
Fluorocarbons
The Balloon Intercomparison Campaign (BIC) is in the data
reduction stage following a successful flight in Septem­
ber of four large balloons.
nearly a year of preparation and cooperation between
entists from seven nations Belgium, France, Japan,
Italy, Canada and the OS.
Funding was provided
by the countries, the National Aeronautics
and CMA.
Plans for BIC Phase II, scheduled for
1
f
l


snring 1983,
well
All of investigators
from I will participate in BIC ii, several

Ethers
and ethvlene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE), are
being reviewed by EPA as part of the Existing Chemicals
Program.
five-stage review process.
The Panel will meet EPA
The Panel submitted test data California OSHA for
The panel submitted comments on a draft Current
is released.
The Panel submitted comments on the draft Chemical
The panel submitted comments on
the draft Priority
Hazard
Level
r
I
Committee's recommendations on 4,4' -me thylenedi aniline.
ductive and teratology testing.
Ketones
The rule on mesityl oxide will be issued in
1 983,
Rubber
to study the genotoxic properties of two rubber
ties of the National Toxicology Program and the Inter­
agency Testing Committee.
t
l
Phthalate Esters
Safety Commission (CPSC) staff to discuss technical in­
in a report prepared by Arthur D. on

the uses of and potential substitutes for phthalate
esters (PS) in consumer products.
This document was
released in violation of Section 6(b) of the Consumer
Product Safetv Act.
counsel objecting the premature release.
The
Panel also submitted detailed technical comments to the
with toxicologists discuss the results of the
TRTG's genotoxicity testing and CPSC's exposure studies.
The staff will prepare a briefing package and meet
products.
tunity to comment on the briefing package and meet
Branch final reports on Phase I of the Health Effects
Program.
The results of the research indicate
that DEHA, DEHP and the metabolites of DEHP, and
2-EH not genotoxic.
The submitted a proposal
effects testing on PE.
to EPA for Phase
The met the Toy Manufacturer's Association
descrihe the Voluntary Testing Program on Phtha­
late
counsel had recommended to
The Pood and Drug Applications Task Group (FDATG) submit­
ted data on DEHA to FDA.
These data were generated
as of the Voluntary Test Program agreed to between
FDA the
second PCB rule that would have excluded only processes
with nonquantifiable releases of PCBs.
EPA's rule
numerical cutoffs for release deemed by EPA
to be lowest practically measurable level.
On 1, 1982, EPA filed with the US District Court
of a schedule for the third rule that includes a
proposal on December 1, 1983, and a final rule on July 1,
038037
EPA that additional on PCB exposure
should he obtained from interested industry groups.
Styrene
NIOSH an external review draft of a Criteria
In the draft, NIOSH recommends that
with a ceiling of 100 ppm.
NIOSH on December 1, 1982.
rene Panel expressed concern with data showing CNS de­
pression in humans at 100 ppm, the limited data did not
regulatory proceedings.
Phase
II is a 'stress' study in rabbits designed to evaluate
the role of stress in producing testicular effects in
Phase III consists of vitro mutagenicity

0
THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
M. STOVER
TAXATION;
sought to regain legislative momentum in Washington by returning
to area of tax and budget issues where he had won substantial victories
during first 19 months in office.
In an effort to restore public enthusiasm for his program,
the proposed to accelerate the scheduled third year individual
tax rate cut from July to January of 1983. However, strong early warnings
from Republican Leaders on Capitol Hill convinced that he did not have
the to support such a step. Congressional concern over rising
tax could be passed in the post-election Special Session.
The also moved to demonstrate his concern over unemployment
that be passed in the post-election session, the President threw the
full of office behind the Transportation Department's proposal
to the Trust Fund and to increase the Federal excise tax on
build the nation's bridges and highways. On December 6, the House passed
Behind the scenes, the Administration was confronting another major
issue of tax and trade policy. In early September, the U.S. Trade Ambassador's
represented before the GATT Council in Geneva that the Administration
would introduce legislation to meet the objections the Domestic Inter­
by European and Canadian members.
It reported that in the meeting
of Administration's Cabinet Council just before Thanksgiving there were
differences over the proper scope of any legislation to amend or
similar to DISC. Equally strong in their opposition to and any continued
In of this disagreement, the Cabinet Council deferred
final action on this issue.

tha fall, representatives in Washington have moved
for continued tax incentives for u.S. exports at least equal to DISC.
Since
there is currently no legislation which has Administration support, the
in amendatory legislation.
has been active in the effort of and allied trade representa­
tives to maintain an effective tax program for exports. Our Tax Policy Committee
has reviewed and rearticulated our position on DISC so that our spokesmen can
that essentially freeze the wellhead prices of natural gas and extend
price controls. Legislation proposed in both Houses would also provide
existing contracts by calling for the renegotiation of certain
of accelerated and complete deregulation of natural gas are
now with re-regulation pressures. Various citizen and labor groups are
that natural gas decontrol is a matter of "heating or eating," and
that rhetoric is being taken up by a number of Congressional Members.

letters are being circulated, and a concerted effort is being made
tax measure or a continuing resolution for appropriations.
The Senate Finance Committee has been the forum for a good deal of the
tax is expected to begin December 13 or 14, and that could be the target
of a natural gas control floor amendment. Senator Thomas F. Eagleton
is spearheading the drive. The Administration has not taken a visibly active
in opposition to the various legislative proposals that would reregulate
gas on an interim basis, but a Presidential veto could occur if a highway tax
passes that is loaded down "negative" amendments.
key members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
expressed opposition on jurisdictional and procedural grounds to any
on legislation has been scheduled for December 13 in that Committee,
but the limited witness list is heavily weighted Senators and groups
advocate a gas price freeze.
On House side, a hearing has been scheduled for December 15 in the
and Synthetic Fuels Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce
(D-IN-10) have generally indicated that a "quick fix" approach is not appro­
gas issues in the
