G
TO OF DIRECTORS
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
Fletcher L. Byrom,
Economic Policy Review committee
September 14,
1976
There is some concern by many in industry that July and August
Certainly, many
areas have been fitful at best.
sales in retail chains have evidenced encouraging strength.
The real concern is the lack of any strength in the housing
market no signs yet of any major move in plant and equipment

Inflationary pressures are at least passive for the present.
But again, projections of shortages in primary industry, only
slight increases in capacity utilization due to the lack of new
capacity in recent years, are a cause for real
concern to many.
jobs and their reactions will be if they do not find the kind
depreciation policy and the failure to date of much of
industry reduce its dividend-payout ratios in order to compensate
justify new plant expenditures on the basis of present profit
levels all these concerns hang like a heavy cloud over a recovery
which to is not as buoyant as they might have hoped, admitting
that to the lack of boom conditions is a good sign for a
Wage and Price Controls
CMA 037043
Wage and controls continue in effect in Canada, so that
Canadian companies of MCA as well as US member companies
ln their operations face problems similar to those which
US industry during the 1971-1974 period.
Stability continues to focus attention on situations it regards as
inflationary. However, while it does have subpoena power, it has
no authority.
In view the solid opposition of both
and labor, there is no present likelihood of the renewed
Senator Hart of Michigan three years ago introduced a
troduced a slightly revised version.
The intended to
measures indicate the existence of concentration" in the
given The chemical industry was one of seven listed as a
possible target.
This was formally abandoned by Senator Hart on May 13
this year. He conceded that its enactment was not "politically
modest Reform Act (S. 3429).
It would amend the
it would eliminate any requirement of proof of intent
in actions brought by the United States;
it would eliminate superior as a defense
(3) it would eliminate the prima effect of a Government
judgment in such an action for subsequent private triple
damages;
it would allow courts to take into consideration economics
of scale in fashioning remedies.
No is expected this year on this new Hart bill, and
When the Hart Industrial Reorganization Act' was first introduced
MCA (in order to be prepared for all engaged an
economic consultant. Professor Steven Lustgarten of Baruch College,
CMA 037044

dustry's case.
view of Proposals for Deconcentration," has been completed and
is available. Senator Hart's Judiciary Subcommittee on Anti足
trust Monopoly did not in fact hold any hearings on the chemical
industry, the Lustgarten report should be helpful in case Congress
es
i
for divestiture in the oil industry - vertical divestiture, limiting
dustry transportation, refining, and marketing) and
horizontal divestiture, requiring oil and gas producers to divest
By a vote of 8 7, the Senate Judiciary Committee has reported
out S, 2387, a vertical divestiture
It require the 18
largest oil companies to divest themselves of vertically integrated
holdings within five years. No further action is expected on the
On the
oppos
"legislative divestiture and/or divorcement of the oil
dustry and ...similar Congressional efforts in other major indus足
A of Senate Commerce Committee hearings, chaired by
Senator Hartke, were held early this summer on the issues of corporat responsibility/federal chartering, offering Ralph Nader a
forum which to push his advocacy of federal chartering for
larger a favorite cause of However, both
any developments in this area.

A task force, h aded by Harold Passer of Eastman Kodak, has
been review the various proposals in the area of eco足
nomic mooted in the Congress and elsewhere.
It
will its first meeting September 15.
7. Corporations
The Economic Policy Review Committee is represented by two
on a special MCA task force dealing the problems
facing multinational corporations.
Other Committees represented
are Policy, International Trade, Government Relations, and
Public Relations.
Multinational corporations are under study and/or attack
There the
There the International Labor
Organization which is conducting a study on the social impact
There is the Organization of American
There is the UN Conference on Trade and Development
where the World nations rally for their attack upon
industry, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Multinational Corporations and the tax-writing Com足
of the Congress - Ways and Means in the House and Finance
in Senate.
The force has been monitoring developments in all these

to an effective industry educational campaign, the
drive for punitive taxation of was largely turned back in
the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees.
The
The
outlaw such payments.
annual meeting of the ILO this summer.
The Commission on
Corporations is at work on guidelines, but is not
to produce them for eighteen months or so.
By the most important recent development on the interi
national stage was the adoption by the on June 21 of a
statement on "International Investment and Multinational
CMA 037046
statement, the product of lengthy negotiations among the 24
internationally.
In particular, the statement:
investors, so that they will be accorded treatment no
favorable than that accorded domestic enterprises in like
* Recognizes the sanctity of contracts between governments and

* the positive contributions which multinational
* the use of international arbitration in resolving
as the debate over multinational corporations progresses in
wider forum of the United Nations.
037047
