Exhibit F
THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. STOVER
22,
1976
The Second Session of the 94th Congress came to an end in the
early morning hours of October 2, its 258 day duration making it the
second Congressional session since 1960. Of the more than
20,000 introduced, only about 450 survived final enactment.
Fifteen were vetoed, and four vetoes were overridden.
During
the Second Session the Senate took 688 recorded votes and the House
661, total of 1,349 being a new record.
Amid frantic flurry of last-minute activity,
Brills of significance were moved on toward enactment,
also left behind some unfinished in
completed, which are sure to reappear
one or another.
a of
but the 94th
the of
next year in
were:
- The Toxic Substances Control Act (PL 94-469), finally became
law five years of deliberation and controversy, thus
Federal controls over the manufacture, distribution
and use of chemicals.
busters and last-ditch House opposition; authorizes states
of requires large companies notify government
powers.
k
V
- Tax (PL was the product of three years work
but far short of reforms promised by Democratic congressional leaders; plans for major overhaul of taxation of U.S.
in extended the investment tax credit for another
four years, increased the minimum tax for and altered
the rules for corporate foreign tax credits.


expands Federal and state programs
authorizations and powers for EPA, a Federal regulatory
program for hazardous wastes, a ban on open dumping within five
years, and authorizations for state and local solid waste
and research programs.
election-year jitters, veto threats, internal squabbles
and the pressure of an abbreviated Congressional session combined to
of are likely to surface again.
- A to provide stricter regulation of lobbying, which
amid minute parliamentary manuevering as Congress ad足
journed; Common Cause is a strong advocate, while Nader groups
and the AFL-CIO supported only the House version;
is apprehensive over the prospect of heavier record-keeping
and reporting requirements; dues paid to trade associations by
c
- Clean Air Amendments fell victim to a Senate filibuster as the
Session ended; Senator Muskie has blamed the auto industry for
killing the measure and may resist efforts for quick action on
set to effect in 1978; the so-called non-attainment and
issues were also controversial and sure
to be hotly debated in the next Congress.
- Water Pollution legislation in conference; chief issues
were of control over the nation's wetlands, expanded
and delay of mid-1977 water quality deadlines for municipalities.
The Congress is expected to take a thorough look at the
entire Water Pollution Control Act, as a starting
viable although both the House and Senate passed
prices, and thus discouraging new exploration and production.
beyond early hearing stages; its chief sponsor, Michigan
A. Hart, is retiring; the measure out
up, creates a special commission to make divestiture
gations and a special court to compel dismantling.
CMA 037113
I

would forced "horizontal" divestiture, thus keeping oil
companies out of other energy source interests (m though the
cleared a Senate committee it was never taken
Senate Committee; one concept would require a Federal
of corporations, annual reporting on the makeup
of the board of directors, product line sales and voting stock
Among numerous other which failed achieve Congressional
strict over strip-mining;
land use controls;
common picketing in the construction industry;
powers and investigative authority for the Federal
Trade Commission.
CARTER TO TAKE OFFICE
pollster Lou Harris called "the old Roosevelt coalition"
as the backbone of campaign. Governor Jimmy Carter of Georgia
has president-elect, and is now hard at work on the massive task
of Administration.
Recent days have seen Mr. Carter
closeted such Ford Administration notables as George Bush (for
and at 3:30 this afternoon he is in personal conference with President
Ford to discuss the transition of the Government.
uncertainty as much as by mere curiosity. After all, Jimmy Carter has
run as an anti-establishment candidate for nearly two years.
He has
|s vowed sweeping reforms and new programs, has fought bitter campaign
recognized leaders of his own party. ' However, on election
":9ht made a quick transition from critic on the outside to manager
n the
Jimmy Carter now IS the establishment.
fe
therefore he is now confronted with a dilemma of some delicacy,
how to begin direct and motivate the people and the mechanisms
he has so recently and soundly castigated.
He must find and appoint
cabinet heads and officeholders the capacity to make the machinery
of government work, and this would seem to indicate a need for
enced but at the same time he must avoid the appearance
and professionals. He needs new faces, but he also needs the
There are signs that a number of Carter appointments may be
relatively soon, so that incoming officials will have maximum
time planning and coordination with departing officials of the
around the world will be carefully
Administration, the influence wielded by various interest groups
and and for indications as the political of
the himself.
Among most delicate tasks confronting Mr. Carter, and one he
to recognize clearly as such, is the establishing of communica足

His meeting 16 Democratic Congressional leaders
last at the of Georgia Senator Herman Talmadge was
surely an effort to hold out the olive branch and to begin build
for key programs.
The were reportedly broad in
touching on matters relating to the strength of the economy
and'reorganization of Government.
Some however, that the new President may
Democratic hands. They reason it this way: Congressional leaders
of and Ford, have obviously enjoyed the indepen足
dence and status which the years of confrontation have produced.
They
have had an important role in punishing one President and in making
their of action.
and programs delayed
by Watergate or stalled by Ford vetoes are already in
fairly polished form, and are not likely to be dropped readily by
their in favor of Carter alternatives.
Yet another factor
will the attitude of the White House itself, and long-time Carter
point out that he adopted a tough, no compromise attitude
toward the Georgia legislature during as Governor.
CMA037115

Much official Washington is now speculating on the future
from speeches and statements by the President-elect, and
respect the economy. Governor Carter appears in
favor of creating more jobs and providing stimulus the national
young from urban areas is another Carter aim, and is consistent
of investment credits, strong enforcement and a
Tax reform,
a popular topic at the campaign podium, will take considerably
to accomplish.
He
for strict enforcement of water pollution control laws and
Control Act.
He strict controls over strip
m
greater emphasis on energy conservation, and a strengthening
of new nuclear power plants.
increased reliance on domestic coal from the deep of Appalachia
and oppose heavy development of strip-mined coal resources in
the Western United States. He opposes further expansion of Western
lease decisions.
with economic penalties on those with less fuel efficiency.
He Federal subsidies for synthetic fuel production.
ME
NEW NEW LEADERS. SAME VOTE
When the smoke of election day had cleared, the new Congress
of 62 Democrats and 38 Republicans, and the House shows a
shift the Democrats of only two seats, the new ratio being 292-143

On closer inspection, however, the changes will be both numerous
and in both parties; there is a substantial crop of "freshmen",
there is talk of major committee realignment in the
The House will organize itself in early December, in that Members
will be named to committees, new chairmen will be elected and changes
in rules and committee jurisdictions will be considered. Not
until the 95th Congress convenes in January, however, will subcommittee
voted on.
There are 67 new House Members, 47 Democrats and 20 Republicans.
95 percent of those running being returned to office.
The
re-election rate held true for the 79 so-called "Watergate
78 for re-election and 76 won.
There will be a number of important changes in the
- Committee (committee 2-year rotation rule)
- The Interior Committee (jurisdiction includes energy matters,
- Marine and Fisheries (merchant marine matters,
- Post Office Committee (the postal
- works and Transportation Committee (water pollution
most transportation matters)
debate)
development worthy of mention is the fact that there are
vacancies to be filled on the House Ways and Means Committee
taxation and trade legislation are written.
CMA
I

The Senate will also undergo some interesting changes.
didn't fare as well as their House colleagues only 16 of the 25
The 64 percent re-election rate for
who replace Vice President-elect Mondale.
Ten are Democrats and
committee chairmen were defeated: Hartke (Veterans Affairs),
(Aeronautics and Space), and McGee (Post Office and
will be considerable change in the memberships of several
Committees, including Commerce, where there are 7 vacancies
filled. Finance (4 and Judiciary (5
will bring a significant shift in committee jurisdictions and respon足
sibilities. A reorganization proposal in the form of a Senate
Resolution has been drafted by the Committee on Committees headed by
Adlai E. Stevenson, Jr. and could be taken up early
in 1977. The resolution presents a number of alternatives for

