This
reflects a 1984 chemical trade balance of about $379 million in
investment in other country.
In many cases, Canadian
subsidiaries U.S. companies produce or finished
products, not only for the Canadian market, but also for the
United States and third country markets.
industries each other.
Canada has a base in
capacity for large volumes of certain basic chemicals and inter足
mediates.
chemical and downstream chemical processing industry, as well as
capacity to produce a variety of commodity chemicals.
The United
Dep't. of Commerce, Bureau of Census* of
U.S. Export Import Trade December, 1984).
038378
also the world's largest market for products of the
III. SPECIFIC
Any Bilateral Trade Agreement Must Confer Balanced
agreements this contention.
Section 102 of the Trade
Act of 1974, as amended by Section 401 of the Trade and Tariff
Act of 1984,
indicates that such negotiations should be
conducted on the basis of mutuality.
Moreover, the legislative
bilateral agreements of the sort proposed with Canada must be
"reciprocal
$2112), as amended by Section 401(a) (2) of the Trade and Tariff
038379
Any Free Trade Agreement Canada Must Address
Negotiations on the Elimination of Preferential Canadian
Chemical and Energy Policies and Foreign
Investment Must be an Integral Part of Any Free
believes the negotiations between the United States
and Canada on a bilateral free trade agreement should not be
limited to subject of tariff-cutting.
The elimination of
feedstock and energy policies and by Canadian foreign investment
restrictions also be adequately addressed in such
negotiations.
believe that the U.S. Gov rnment
obtaining Canadian agreement to eliminate the trade distorting
effects of restrictive policies.
Ample support for the
inclusion of barriers in such negotiations is found in
Sections 102(a)/ 103 and 105 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19
038380
Canadian Raw and Energy Policies
believes that the internal energy policies implemented
under the National Energy Policy
have had an
adverse on market mechanisms in Canada and on Canadian
trade United States in energy-related products, such as
chemicals.
We understand that the is under review by the
Canadian and is likely to be changed.
In any case, as
part of a bilateral free trade agreement, we urge that the United
governments' supply, price, and access policies do not
an artificial advantage for the producers of one country over
those of the
Such an assurance is particularly important
to such as the petrochemical industry, for which
feedstock and availability are critical because the cost
of feedstocks represents the largest element of cost for many
petrochemical products.
If the trade distorting effects of the
price of, and access to, petrochemical feedstocks are not
neutralized, those Canadian policies will largely determine
the of competition in international trade in
between the United States and Canada, undermining
the workings of an open market system.
038381
Canadian Policy
The United States Government must address differences in
industry are subject to different or more stringent
requirements are Canadian investors in Canada.
be in violation of GATT Article III because made approval
to
e
invest in Canada contingent upon a foreign investor's acceptance
of often onerous requirements to which domestic
Canadian were not subject.
We that the Canadian Government has begun to
administer FIRA in a less restrictive manner and that the
Canadian has passed the "Investment Canada Act" as

while this legislation is supposed to
restrictions remain, especially on foreign acquisitions of
existing companies.
It remains to be seen how the new
on Tariffs and Trade, Report of the
Panel, of the Foreign Investment Review
in the House of Commons on December 7, 1984.
038382
In any event, CMA urges the United States Government to seek
restrictions, other than those dealing national security,
prior to finalizing a tariff-cutting agreement with Canada.
Other Trade Barriers, Such as Inadequate
Protection Intellectual Property Should Also be
Considered Any Free Trade Negotiations Between the United
States and Canada.
that the protection of intellectual property rights is
essential increased innovation and productivity and is a vital
part of international trade decisions.
encouraging such protection in other countries are contained in
the Trade Tariff Act of 1984,
the topic is being included
in numerous trade and investment negotiations, and
efforts are by some industry groups to have intellectual

In this urges the United States Government to
address the of protection of intellectual property rights
Canada has
recognized the importance of providing such
038383
protection.
However, some problem areas remain, for example, in
We believe a free trade agreement
with Canada include a resolution of these issues, as well
as eliminating any other non-tariff trade barriers
Agreement Canada Must be Ef?ective.
Free Trade the United Statesand Canada
sKould Include All Chemicals and Related Products and Not be
Restricted Chemical Industry Subsectorsor Specific
Products.
A key issue the U.S.-Canada negotiations is whether
import or tariffs will be eliminated "across the board" or
is to any chemical industry product or subs ctoral
approach.
Instead, we that tariff negotiations
Canada must address all chemicals and related products.
We
believe such broader negotiations offer greater potential for
mutual trade benefits.
038384
Any Free Agreement Canada Should Require That All
products for Duty-Free Entry Into the United States
70 Percent the Value of the Product.
condition duty-free entry into the United States under a
bilateral free trade agreement Canada.
This criterion would
be fully the goal of enhanced U.S./Canadian trade
and would help to prevent potential abuses of a special trade
relationship through transshipment practices.
The value
threshold must be high enough to prevent products of
performed in Canada.
urges that the minimum domestic Canadian value added
Generalized of Preferences, the Caribbean Basin Economic
Recovery Act, and the proposed bilateral free trade agreement
with Israel.
with Canada because Canada is not a developing country and should
not be the liberal domestic value added requirements that
In
addition, recommends that the value of U.S. origin raw
materials other components incorporated into a Canadian
product in Canada be considered to be Canadian value added for
purposes of the 70 percent test to promote bilateral trade.
038386
A Free Agreement Canada Should Provide for the
Mandatory^ Reimposition of Duties in the"Event of
include a "snap-back" provision under which United States import
column 1 rates if the conditions of the free trade agreement are
For example, if investment restrictions
were reimposed by Canada or if Canada a new non-tariff
barrier exports, then the duties on imports from Canada
Free Trade Canada Should Also Address
Other Issues, Such as How Temporary Trade Distortions Caused
by Currency Fluctuations and Injury to a Domestic Industry
by Entry of Products Will be Handled, Avoid
Impairment of the Benefits Under Any Bilateral Free Trade
Agreement.
addressed the context of bilateral free trade negotiations
with Canada are how to handle temporary trade distortions caused
by currency fluctuations and what to do if a domestic industry is
injured by duty-free entry of products under an agreement.
Consideration should be given to imposition of a surcharge to
correct the temporary trade distortions in the first instance and
to imposition of temporary safeguard duties to eliminate the
unfair statutes will continue to apply to imports fr
Canada.
038386
Any Bilateral Free Trade Agreement Canada Should
Contain an and Binding Dispute Settlement
Mechanism.
that any bilateral free trade agreement with
Canada contain procedures for the settlement of disputes
between and the United States that arise under the
agreement.
We do not that the procedures contained in
the U.S./Israeli agreement are adequate for this
purpose.
Instead, we recommend that dispute settlement procedures in
settlement of disputes;
provide for a rapid and effectiv
decision the event of a stalemate; and, most importantly,
provide significant industry input in the dispute settlement
process.
for Timely Industry Input Before and During U.S,
Canada.
As by the Trade Act of 1974, and in th
Trade
a structure of formal industry
from all segments of U.S. is in place.
There is a
as amended bv Section 1103 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979,
JrStat.
038387
widespread perception that the ISACs were not advised or
consulted adequately in the course of developing the U.S./Israel
Free Trade Agreement nor in earlier and subsequent U.S.
Government discussions Mexico which led to the signing
the U.S./Mexican Subsidies Agreement.
eliciting sector input on a timely basis if any
consultations on a U.S./Canada bilateral agreement proceed.
Moreover, believe that appropriate mechanisms must exist
to allow additional industry input, such as from and
other trade associations, into any such negotiations so that all
considerations can be addressed prior to any
commitments having been made.

believes that, if the issues raised in this paper are
considered by the United States Government before negotiations
agreement Canada, then trade benefits mutually advantageous
to both are achievable through such an agreement.



exhibit
I
AMD
PROPOSED ON GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
1
I
1
program and to request approval of one new element of OiA's
policy.
is an important natural resource. It has many and varied uses
including water supplies, crop irrigation, livestock watering and
industrial water supplies. Approximately 50% of all Americans obtain all or
part of their drinking water from groundwater sources.
Recently issues have come to the forefront. Many groundwater
issues are or soon will be before Congress, EPA, state legislatures and
regulatory agencies, and on the agendas of environmental groups, industry groups,
o
groundwater legislation in September 1985 which may
transportation, product use, waste disposal).
o
In 1985, groundwater related were introduced in 25
states. contain provisions which significantly
impact industry operations. An even greater level
o
Some such as Wisconsin and Florida have enacted
detailed for groundwater management programs.
o
EPA recently developed and is moving implement a groundwater protection strategy.
o
Consensus groups, such as the Conservation foundation and the
National Alliance have formed task groups to address
the issues.
o
other associations such as NACA, and NEDA are
policy statements.
o
groups such as EDF and EPI (Environmental

To a beneficial balance between chemical industry operations and
of human health and aquatic resources.
Elements Status of Groundwater Policy
addresses federal and state legislative and regulatory responsibilities. CMA's
position the federal/state split continues be that:
o
states should have responsibility for defining. Implementing
o
the federal government should provide guidance, technical
transfer and funds to states in their efforts.
the issue. These aspects include groundwater standards, monitoring,
date are in Table I.
Proposed Protection Policy
The groundwater protection policy is before the Board of Directors
resource must be protected.
integral part of broader groundwater management program.
As develop their protection recamends that states
consider instituting requirements for appropriate facility design and operating
developed by each facility that will minimise the release of
pollutants (groundwater protection practices).
Also, recognises that states may choose to institute the f llowing
practices as part of a groundwater management prograi a) a groundwater
withdrawal program to protect groundwater quality, b) land use planning in areas
where potential for adverse imp acts from groundwater contain stion from
future are significant} e) a permit progrma for point source
discharges to groundwater where such discharges are not already controlled under
existing regulations*
Requested Action
review for infozmation only*
for one element of the groundwater prograi
Quality (full text attached).
Specific approval is
Policy Frotecti n of

038390
Element
of am Position and Status
existing quality or at a quality necessary
to maintain use, provided that standards
are where groundwater is
drawn use* The federal goveriment
should develop use-based criteria s
states can set reasonable standards*
1
This position addresses when, where and
how to groundwater insure
that groundwater quality is not
The position calls for tech足
nically sound methods for monitoring
by the Board of Directors in June 1985.
Alternative Supplies of
Drinking Water
unit should use to deter足
mine alternative drinking water
supplies should be provided. This is
an of current Board
Superfund policy.
Sols Aquifer
to groundwater contmnatlon
is an of Board approved
Use
uses. position was approved by the
Board of Directors in 1982. Re-evalua足
Product Handling
This policy should address product
prevent contamination of groundwater.
Plana policy development are
underway.
038391
J-2
POSITION


This document provides concapts for stata groundwitar quality protaction
of private and public activities (industrial, domestic, municipal,
by existing state and federal statutes, regulations and programs.
been the responsibility of state and local governments. In view
of tha localized nature of groundwatar use and the land use considerations tied
so to groundwater management, states continue be best suited to
develop and implement groundwater management program. Some states have
or are in the process of designing programs tailored to meet their
should consider instituting performance requirements for each facility
that minimise the release of pollutants (groundwater protection practices
Also, CMA realizes that statss may choose to institute one or more of the
from future activities are significant; and a permit program
for source discharges to groundwater where such dischargus are not already
under existing regulations.
The of requirements for appropriata facility design and
practices (GPP's) is an acceptable and appropriate means of protecting

from ill source*. Such practices should be developed by the affected facility,
necessary, to demonstrate the effectiveness of the specific protection practice.
In, addition, a should include educational and training programs for those
for implementation.
In addition, the GPP plan should be modified whenever changes at a
or where actual releases indicate the plan is inadequate.
states opt to include as part of their groundwater quality
The federal government should assist states in developing requirements
by providing guidance and technical assistance and by creating the opportunity
exchange. This would assist states in the most
appropriate and necessary procedure for those whose land surface activities
could affect groundwater quality.
withdrawal of quantities of water can affect groundwater quality
by causing saltwater intrusion, undesirable changes in groundwater flow
