TRADE;
EXPORT COMPANY LEGISLATION
I
now subject joint conference.
language from Representative St. H.R. 6016).
If into law, a new
form of export effort will be possible. The CHA International Trade
Committee will determine how to advise member companies on use of the export trading
company of marketing.
MARITIME REFORM PROPOSALS DELAYED

Senators Howard Metzenbaum and Strom The delay has been
created because of antitrust implication, and because of Senator Slade Gorton's
an unrelated involving the Brick case. S. 1593
shippers and carriers.
House action on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee-reported
H.R. 4374, has been delayed until the resolution of antitrust concerns
by the Judiciary Committee. Jurisdiction over the was asserted by the
037964
now is version will emerge from the House Rules Committee, generally
supports the Judiciary version and would encourage no further amendments except
Committee, it is possible the could go to the floor under suspension or without
Passage of a House similar to the Senate
measure offer the Senate leadership the means to adopt the House bill, thus
Maritime Reform.

ports was unexpectedly sent to the House Rules Committee last month.
H.R. had been labeled non-eontroversial in an attempt to gain the opportunity
for House floor consideration. ; A rule for the was not given.
Opposition to the came primarily from a group of midwestern Congressmen,
and Efforts continue heep the from reaching the House floor.
REGULATORY REFORM LEGISLATION
The delay in House consideration of regulatory legislation may
an omnibus regulatory bill, H.R. 746 (Danielson-D-CA). Since
a
On 24 the Senate passed S. the Regulatory Act. S.
coalition seeking passage of this important legislation.
In July, the coalition stepped up its efforts to secure House
O'Neill and other members of the House Democratic leadership had reservations
however, may be resolved by amendments which would bring H.R. 746 closer
to the of S. Although chances for House floor consideration of

t

PATENT RESTORATION BILL REPORTED
has actively supported passage of patent tern restoration legislation,
H.R. and its predecessor H.R. 1937 (Kastenmeier-D-wlSC). On July 28,
the Judiciary Committee favorably reported H.R. 6444 to the House.
y
H.R. would add up to 7 years of patent life to products that must
undergo government-mandated testing and review. During the mark-up of the
by Judiciary Committee, a technical amendment was approved which would
rather "recipient of marketing approval." This change would ensure that
term
r
Patent restoration legislation passed the Senate by voice vote last
opposed a coalition of organized labor, certain consumer groups, and the
generic drug industry.
and is following the leadership of the Manufacturing
present vote for the Representatives of member companies have been
alerted to contact Members of Congress urging them to vote for passage of

LEGISLATION
I
would govern the patent rights of employed inventors. H.R. 4723 and H.R. 6635
1
would assignment agreements between employers and employees
which to the employer rights to any invention that is not an "employment *
invention" or a "service invention." H.R. 6635 also calls for "adequate
compensation for the (inventor's) service invention."
On July 29, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts,
and the of Justice held a public hearing receive support testimony
from Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and from the AFL-CIO.
The and Trademark Committee is reviewing this legislation and will
develop appropriate CMA comments, but it is unlikely that legislation on this
subject could be enacted in this Congress.
037966
I

legislative and regulatory activity
By late July and August, most stata lagislaeurts had adjourned for the year.
In tha othars, suroter raeassas wart in affact. Tha following statas art expected
statas hald or will hold special sassions in 1963 to addrass budgat matters
and othar pressing concerns such as unemployment and taxes.
activity has also decreased reflecting sumer schedules.
Tha Stats Affairs Planning Group, organized in April at tha direction of
has now completed its final report which is being presented in August to tha Executive
Tha report focusses on:
Outlook for increased stata legislative and regulatory activity.
Currant and emerging issues.
organizational needs to effectively address state affairs.
Status and role of state chemical industry councils.
Programs of allied associations.
. AND TASK ACTIVITY
with legislative and regulatory activity during the summer, the
SASC its task groups have concentrated on preparation for the 1983 legislative
Major activities include:
planning for four regional CMA State Affairs Issues
Seminars be held in October and November in Port Chester
Atlanta Chicago (XL), and Denver (CO). These sessions are
highlight state legislative and regulatory trends and
acquaint plant managers, regional state government relations rep­
resentatives, state trade and associations and allied
representatives with chemical industry issues and CMA's
posture on them.
and New York having been addressed to date.
1
037957
i
Meetings of the Network Task Group in Minnesota and Wisconsin
during These meetings are designed to enhance the working
states exploring the need and desirability of establishing
t
and guidelines for legislative and regulatory tracking
Presentations by potential vendors for the 1983-84 session
will be invited participate in the program.
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ANNUAL MEETINGS
During and August, the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL)
i
and the National Governors Association held their annual meetings. Policy
making sessions on chemical industry issues were limited and no significant adverts :
Interaction between the NCSL and the community
increase the benefit of all parties. had an exhibit at the
NCSL explaining our Chemtrec activities and the industry's efforts to manag(
worked NCSL staff to place industry spokesmen on hazardous materials
t
and biotechnology panels.
f
I
ISSUES
RIGHT KNOW
I
f
this year which contained extensive record keeping requirements. The Governor
then these provisions and his veto was recently sustained. Proponents of
in Wisconsin may attempt to revise the law in the near future to makt
it more stringent.
i
their way through the state administrative process. If and whan they emerge, the
nation.
based their ordinances on the model proposal drafted by the State
Health Department, but the more recent ordinances are becoming more diverse.
Cincinnati finally enacted a community right-to-know during the summer,
A new combined worker and connnunity right-to-know 1670) has been

i
in New Jersey by Senator Dalton and hearings are expected in September.
is closely with the New Jersey Chemical Industry Council on their
An industry court challenge to West Virginia's 1981 worker right-to-know law
has defeated.
Organized labor has made state right-to-know a priority issue for 1983. This
is evidencing itself in states like Michigan and Texas where rumours persist of
preparation.
In to meet this challenge, CMA is in the final stages
of preparing a comprehensive packet on the right-to-know issue for use
in the This would supplement the issues analysis booklet which was made
HAZARDOUS WASTES
waste continues be the most active state program area. The SASC
Waste Disposal Task Group has been involved in the following activities:
Gearing up to address the impact in the states of the forthcoming
tort study mandated under federal superfund.
waste.
interaction EMC task groups in policy development
and activities for state activities.
Meeting chemical industry and state association representatives
The significant legislative activity during the summer months was the
passage of a superfund by New York. The final was the product of intense
between industry and the state and between the Assembly and Senate.
The act creates a cleanup fund which is funded by a waste end fee. party
provisions were not included.
In Massachusetts, HB 6551 is likely to be considered this fall. Member
company representatives, working closely ihe Associated Industries of
have been engaged in discussions with the Administration, legislators
and contains no additional liability language.
HB 4715 has passed the House and is in the Senate pending further
action. Although the still requires further amendments to more closely link
it superfund, it is financed from general revenues and does not contain
provisions.
The New Jersey Spill Fund will likely be the subject of significant amendments
is the of the tax from feedstock to waste end. The New Jersey has

HA2ARP0US MATERIALS
has continued on drafting consensus "Good Samaritan" language
for use by a coalition of trade associations. concerns center on language
Once consensus language has been achieved, targeting of states for
coalition action can begin in earnest. The SASC Hazardous Materials Transportation
Task Group is now working closely with Distribution Committee members to more
clearly delineate state transportation concerns and develop briefing materials
to support our positions.


i

i
f

have active in negotiations other trade associations and state and local
on prenotification requirements for hazardous materials shipments, Alabama recently j
proposed regulations requiring two weeks prior notification of the shipment of
waste. This notification would be given to several state agencies and the ^
waste facility to which the waste is shipped.
r
AIR AMD WATER QUALITY

The Environmental Task Group has been reorganized under a new chairman
and has designated priority issues in the air and water quality area including:
Groundwater/safe drinking water, water quality standards (including
state cancer policies.
The group is working the groundwater and water quality standards
task groups on developing state issue positions and supporting materials.
Major and regulatory activity includes the California Air Resource
in this area. Other states with toxic air contaminant legislation include
600 would extend the life of the state TSCA act indefinitely.
I
is also working on risk assessment methodology for use in wattrl
quality standards.
I
CHA
037960
I
M
REPORT DIRECTOR OF
RICHARD L. WILSON
The Communications Department has one primary objective;
to recognition that the chemical industry is committed
to act to protect the public from the health and
safety of its products -- and thereby to develop public
support for the industry's public policy positions.
The
ment is an integral part of the umbrella function of advocacy.
CMA's communications activities are instrumental in shaping
public and public support.
From understanding
and evolves government controls and issue-related laws
The department is interlocked and suppor­
tive of every other CMA department and committee through every
step of the public policy process.
The Communications Committee (made up of the top pro­
fessionals in the industry) monitors department activities and
helps program development.
The program includes:
- The CMA two-year old advertising program produced
measurable results, as tested by Cambridge Reports in its third
wave public opinion poll earlier this year.
Almost the
active" sample surveyed were aware of the CMA
cation the magazines in which the ads appeared.
of the gave the industry better marks (13 percentage
points) for its efforts on waste disposal than those who were not.
For the first time since 1980, the proportion of politically
active who feel the industry is concerned about the
average person's welfare nearly equals those viewing the
as unconcerned.
The creative strategy to demonstrate the chemical
commitment through the personal concern of individual
people by showing their dual role as concerned parent and
worker will be used for the remainder of this calendar year.
These ten human-interest advertisements appear in Time, Newsweek,
Angeles Times and The Washington Post.
In two these ads have
generated almost a quarter of a million requests for the "key
issues" booklets and additional information.
Several new creative formats
ment beginning Jan. 1, 1983.
for place-
037961

Science Advisory Group will visit 67 cities and appear on more
nearly 125. newspaper interviews.
The is coordinating
an more aggressive media tour schedule during the current
media "season."
June 1932 and May 1983, media
tour should visit approximately 90 primary cities.
News materials distribution includes special newsfeatures and
pieces for print media; issue backgrounders; special re­
ports from news releases; booklets and pamphlets;
and of "The Chemical Industry Facts File."
The has begun production of special communications
materials on such key issues as water and hazardous waste.
The
first of these was a package of materials on water issues, de­
signed for use or adaptions by member companies at the local level.
in this package were: a model speech and press release;
backgrounders on water suggested questions and answers for
media video film clips.
packages on other
issues including hazardous waste disposal are planned.
The Section will produce a special monthly newsletter to
and on major issues.
Another newsletter is planned for
members of the press to keep them up to date on issues.
Radio include: THE a series of threeminute newsfeatures, distributed biweekly to a
posal and siting, energy, clean air and water issues, and other
related subjects.
Usage of 1,250 to
1,650 stations encourage an increased effort in the future.
In the television area: ninety-second newsfeatures were
this spring on Superfund and hazardous waste techno logy,
distribution was done by satellite followup pla cement
in 84 markets.
year environmental and issues.
Media continues and will be expanded by attends nee at
the and Television News Directors Association, Nations 1
Radio Broadcasters Association and National Farm Broadcaster s
Association conventions.
i
i
i
Also, Services is responsible for coordinating sus tained,
of and development efforts by outside public relations counsel.
The media contact efforts have resulted in numerous
i

the commercial television networks,
and Public Broadcasting System.
Public Radio
Ca 11s from the media average about 4,200 calls a year,
This gure does not include telephone and personal contacts
ed by the Section.
icers and executives on major speaking platforms in major
across the country, such as: the Detroit Economics Club;
the Id Affairs Council of Pittsburgh; the Executive Club of
I
Chicago *
PROJECTS - A regional communications program is
d.
The program will be limited to one state, will be molded
to state's communications needs and will be carried out by the
of the companies that make up the council.
Funds the
would be made available by CMA.
are to measure the'effectiveness of the communications
states could use to attack their communications problems.
As of June, 1,080,000 key issue booklets have been printed, and
have been distributed.
Total printed were 1,472,700,
relations staff of Celanese Corporation, the Chemical Section
of the International Association of Business Communicators and the
County, Greenwich, Conn., chapter of the Public Relations
of America.
has been made the public relations
AIChE in CMA's communications effort.
The DuPont Company's introductory session for the staff
will be included in CMA's communications program.
liaison initiating, developing and maintaining
mutually beneficial relationships between and a wide variety
and serviei ng throughout the year.
TV radio taping facilities for AWRT interviews key member

Also, Saction participated for the fourth year in
Twelve company executives gave 296 radio and TV interviews
in
Federation of Women's Clubs -- 12,500 U.S. clubs
and 600,000 members;
Home Economics Association -- 55,000 members
high concentration in academia;
who work with 58,000 clubs;
Council on Consumer Interests 4,300 members,
consumer educators.
Education t The Catalyst Awards, begun in 1957, have honored
of teachers supportive of the industry.
and regional awards are given each year.
winners
winners
$500, a medal and a certificate.
The Industry
Over requests
176 excellent candidates.
has now begun its 1983
in 1982 about hazardous waste disposal, is just beginning be
organizations and schools.
companies
ordered 30 16 mm. versions and 63 videotapes of "The Need to
Also, developed three public service announcements as
part of "The Need to Know" film package; "Abandoned Waste Sites,"
water in America" and "Waste Disposal Incineration."
More 700 of these spots are mailed to public service
for sale to members for hand placement to their local public
Since the beginning of promotion of the film, a total of 559
have been circulated to 10,431,135 estimated viewers.
This year to date, 2,631 bookings have been scheduled to

l

distribution began in 1981.
companies have ordered
277 mm. versions and 63 videotapes of the film.
"The Chemical Balance" is a 12-minute, 35 mm.
of chemical industry contributions to people, the
nation and its management of risk.
A copy of the slide show
was to each member company.
- News strives to keep its 5,000 readers in
member companies informed of Association activities.
the is going behind the news to explain the significance
of issues.
have covered the CMA/EPA Five Plant Study, TSCA, the environmen­
activities and future plans.
the industry's efforts to improve the environment and the workplace.
Its 30,000 readers get the other side of the story that seldom
appears in the public
to keep the press and other interested publics aware of CMA' s
and progress.
037965
