complete work on s. 1128 before this session ends. S. 1128 and the
House-passed version reflect efforts for extensions, modifications
proposals in several areas CMA sought including: extended
run-off requirements. CMA currently is preparing for conference activity
Regulatory Developments and Response
on proposed revisions to its pretreatment regulations. The
revises the definitions of and "pass for
of determining extent of pretreatment control necessary. CMA's
generally supported the changes since they brought the
Group developed comments on EPA's biomonitoring study conducted in
Ohio. requested CMA to peer review the study. CMA's comments were
?age
19
constructive comments on how to improve the report.
Technical and Research Activities
Effluent Guidelines Seminar. The Effluent Guidelines Task Group
developed and conducted a seminar on EFA's proposed revisions the
organic chemical, plastics, and synthetic fibers effluent guidelines. The
seminar was attended by approximately ISO member company representatives.
were from the task group, staff, consultants, and
Permit Uncertainty/Variability. The Environmental
specific concern are permit limitations and the documented degree of
points these questionable numerical limitations can form the basis
for EPA enforcement actions and/or citizen suits potentially
significant penalties imposed.
the civil penalty award in an enforcement ease brought by a citizen
violations that occurred over approximately three years. The court
a lengthy, detailed review of the factual situation and assessed
circumstances (ranging from $50/day $4,000/day). The decision is
to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. If upheld, the ruling
could serve as an important precedent for the many other courts now faced
Product Distribution
Developments and Responno
Congressional attention regarding hazardous substance and safety issues
have intensified discussions pertaining to the transport of hazardous
issues are expected to be included in hearings on environmental matters.
includes the creation of a federal regional training program on hazardous
that contingency planning and an inventory of hazardous materials
transported. He has also introduced a community emergency response and
that may be offered on the Senate floor as an amendment
to the Superfund
Page
20
is proposals affecting the movement of hazardous
by the Office of Technology Assessment. Discussions are being conducted
with a materials advisory task group at the Department of
regarding initiatives to insure more efficient and safe
of hazardous materials. CMA also continues to participate
in a coalition public and private sector groups in seeking a
Rail
Hearings are expected to continue after the August recess in both the
Senate and House Judiciary Committees regarding antitrust implications of
rate practice. The Rail Antitrust Monopoly Act offered by
Senator Dennis DeConcini (D-AZ) and Representative John D. Sieberling
is the subject of discussion and is undergoing redrafting.
have been introduced that would curb railroad rates and
protect captive shippers by way of regulatory changes by Senator Russell
D. Long (D-LA) and Mark Andrews and Representatives W. j.
"Billy" Tauzin and Nick Jo Rahall Legislation that
would standards for rail rates and when rail carriers have
market has also been introduced by Senator Wendell H. Ford
and Representative Rahall. Hearings have not been scheduled, but
may occur in the session when the Interstate Commerce Commission
a rulemaking presently underway that addresses rail
competition. The introduced have not received the support of the
Administration. Some Congressional support is further present for linking
rail issues and protection for captive shippers
legislative proposals under consideration to transfer Conrail the
private sector.
to work to maintain and enhance rail-to-rail competition and
insure of existing law. Negotiations the
railroads have resulted in some agreement with regard to pro-competitive
access The agreement between and the American Association of
Railroads has resulted in am proposed rulemaking and would
legislative measures ire proposed.
Conrail
Bipartisan have been introduced that would sell the
Rail Corporation (Conrail) to an investor group formed by
Morgan & Inc. The legislation provided for the sale of the
85 percent share of the freight system for $1.2 and
resale at least percent of the railroad to the public through one or
more offerings within five years.
vage
21
Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee reported
The Administration is supporting the private offering to
Norfolk Southern as the result of a DOT approved process. Opposition
antitrust/competitive implications and the tax benefits that would derive.
Senate Committee amendments to the Administration are
and there is indication that a filibuster could occur.
On the side, the hearing process will continue after the August
recess. The use of Conrail tax deductions as well as the antitrust
aspects of a merger are under review by the House Ways and Means Committee
and the House Judiciary Committee, respectively. Additional hearings will
be held before the House Energy and Connerce Subcommittee on Commerce,
and Tourism.
The Stanley plan, backed by Conrail management and
will be the primary focus of hearings in the fall. Supporters
may also attempt to link other rail issues the passage of
Conrail enabling legislation.
rail
of
the sale of
Concern has been expressed during hearings that provisions must be
included in any Conrail sale agreement to assure competition. CMA has
advocated the assurance of rail competition in the Northeast Corridor.
The Stanley Company proposal for a public offering is supported by
as most viable option for the disposition of Conrail.
Regulatory Development and Response
Conrail Acquisition. The Distribution Cosuittee developed a position
paper the Administration's proposal to sell the Conrail system to the
reduction in competitive service that may occur if Conrail is sold to
Norfolk Southern. CMA believes a public sale of Conrail, as proposed by
Morgan fi Company, would not reduce competitive rail service in the
Eastern O.S.» therefore, supports the Morgan Stanley proposal.
Rates Compensation
Tank Car Compensation. other tank car providers, and the
have successfully arrived at an agreement on the appropriate
level compensation for tank car use. This level of payout is $554
The issues of enforceability and the form and duration of the
have also been resolved. The joint agreement has been submitted
to the for rulemaking.
Rail to Rail Competition. A compromise agreement between CMA and the
on the issue of competitive access to shipping facilities has
been reached. This agreement is intended to enhance the competitive
available to chemical shippers by allowing rail carriers to
compete for freight when they do not control the track immediately serving
a
"age
22
and the railroads have jointly petitioned the to enact our
CMA also submitted a supplemental petition to expand the scope
of the by including the concepts of proportional rates and
facilities. participated in oral argument on July 18 and
anticipates the ruling on the issues by mid-September.
On July 17, the issued a 4-3 decision in Midtee vs. that, if
upheld, could substantially the benefits of the agreeme-4reached with railroads. The Commission ruled that before it will order
access for the competing carrier, the controlling carrier must
be to be market dominant and charging an unreasonably high rate.
is intervening in the appeal of the Midtec case.
Product and Geographic Competition. Before a shipper may challen^ rail rate as being unreasonably high, the shipper must demonstrate
sources (geographic or can obtain substitute products
On July 31, 1985, the announced that it will
modify product and geographic competition guidelines. The major
changes will be that the railroad must bear the burden of proving
these and (2) the effect of geographic competition will be viewed
depending on whether the shipper is the receiver originator
of the product. The adopted a few of CMA's suggested changes to the
rules, but rejected our'most significant changes, as well as
CMA's for a supplemental rulemaking that would have applied a
Herfindahl market share analysis to the market dominance issue.
Coal Guidelines. The recently adopted the criteria by which
it will judge the reasonableness of coal rates. The criteria are likely
would permit a railroad to charge a rate based on what it would
The rate must also reflect contributions to the cost by other
and efficient operations by the railroad.
Bulk Parcel Rates. CMA is opposing efforts by chemical bulk
parcel operators to obtain antitrust immunity collectively set
before the Federal Maritime Commission and seeking legislative
action this end.

activity continues be well above last year's levels.
"age
23
038348
last year's totals for the period January through July. We believe
program and increased public concern about incidents involving chemicals.
Workshops. The third Emergency Response Team Workshop will
be held in Baltimore, Maryland at the end of October.
School.
Based on a meeting on June 18, 1985, with CMA members, the
CHEMNET Policy Statement and Agreement and the Operating Rules
their consideration.
agreements from members. These 36 companies represent a
large of the chemicals shipped in this country. We have also
verbal confirmation from approximately 10 additional companies
that would join the CHEMNET system. Therefore, we will be beginning
We have also tentatively selected four emergency response contractors
to act as the contractors in the CHEMNET system. These
reach most areas within 3 4 hours of notification, we hope to sign
members and four contractors represent enough emergency
capability to start up the CHEMNET system, we must redouble our
efforts to enroll more chemical companies into the system or the public
will and be disappointed by the coverage of the
A campaign enlist more companies has begun.
Referral Center. The Chemical Referral Center
that health and safety about a particular chemical
has established a work group to oversee the operation of the
Referral Center. Thus far, 93 CMA member companies have signed
they produce are being submitted to CMA. This information will be the
use to products with manufacturers as a public service.
Lending The training programs for emergency services
have been purchased for the lending library. A brochure
the programs and how to obtain them is now available, and
First Videotape Training Program. The script for the
training program has been approved and filming was started T'~~
week of August 19 at the Fairfax County Fire Training facility.
Page
24

for Personnel Protective Clothing" was approved
defines and illustrates terms used to communicate the emergency
the different types of personal protective equipment. The
purpose of the document is to ensure clear and consistent communication
between those who offer advice and those who respond.
Technical and Research Activities
Motor Carrier Safety Survey. Reception of this program by the
community and the carrier industry has been very favorable.
the Military Traffic Command expressed a strong interest in
the program for all defense shipments. A comparison of the
frequency ratios of the surveyed motor carriers against all other
motor carriers will be undertaken to whether the safety records
spokesmen have responded to media questions with statistics on safety and
organized.
Energy and Petrochemical Feedstocks
Natural Gas
The over natural gas issues is primarily concentrated in the
regulatory arena where the Federal Energy Regulatory Conmission
dealing the transportation or carriage of gas, is under
close scrutiny.
FERC from putting into effect any rule dealing with gas
transportation issues pending Congressional review between enactment of
the energy and water appropriation and the end of the first session
of the 99th Congress. Senator J. Bennett Johnston withdrew
amendment on the Senate floor after assurances made by the FERC
under legislative authority and that limiting the scope of FERC
action is an unwarranted intrusion in the independent regulatory process.
The FERC will probably be allowed to conduct transportation programs while
Is reviewing FERC's rulemaking. House energy leaders opposed the
process.
rag
25

unlikely to move quickly is pending in both the Senate
incremental pricing and fuel use restraints and decontrol the price of all
gas renegotiated or expiring gas purchase contracts. Senate
hearings on the status of the natural gas industry have been
held the Subcotmnittee on Energy Regulation and Conservation. A
by Senator Bill Bradley would require mandatory contract
by pipeline companies.
It is that House Energy and Commerce Cononittee John
(D-MI-16) and Fossil and Synthetic Fuels Subcommittee
R. Sharp will hold oversight hearings on natural gas
issues, including matters presently before the Repeal of gas
incremental pricing provisions of the Natural Gas Policy Act (NGPA) and
Fuel Use Act restrictions are the focus of most attention in the
House. Representative Jim Slattery (D-KS-22) and Dan Coates havr>
the and NGPA. Representative Richardson and William E.
Dannemeyer (R-CA-39) have proposed a more comprehensive measure that would
repeal demand restraints, further deregulate and require contract

testimony before has requested that FERC act
on issuing a rule on nondiscriminatory transportation.
A attempt was made before the August recess to propose
an oil import fee as part of the Federal budget deficit reduction package.
President Reagan flatly rejected the proposal, consistent with stated
desire not to increase taxes to reduce budget deficits. However, a
consider some form of taxation on energy as a means to generate revenue.
Senate budget conferees offered a proposal that would a $5 per
barrel levy on imported crude oil and a $10 per barrel fee on imports of
petroleum products. The proposal was endorsed by Senate Majority
Leader Robert J. Dole (R-KS), Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete V.
and Finance Committee Senator Bob Packwood
Some Administration opposition an oil import fee has been
additional taxes on energy. Proposals that may be considered during
budget deliberations include a broad-based consumption sales tax on
a BTU tax, a value added approach, an increased gasoline excise
views of many in Congress.
Legislation that would a $10 per barrel fee on imported oil
and Lloyd Bent'sen (D-TX) are also sponsoring legislation that would
26

a tax on imported oil and oil products. A has also been offered
cent a gallon excise tax on gasoline. Senator Lowell P. Weicker
The impact of various energy taxes on the chemical industry
officials have been contacted concerning the impact of energy taxes on the
chemical industry. advocacy and liaison with other industry groups is
in opposition to the imposition of new or additional energy
taxes. A broad coalition has sent a letter to President Reagan
reiterating opposition to any additional tax on energy.
Energy Regulatory Commission proposed a major rule respect to
the of natural gas. The purpose of the rule is to require
in blanket transportation programs and to encourage
in natural gas markets.
a broad coalition of industrial users in submitting
major directions and many of the details of the Connission's
proposals. The comments, however, also urged several important
In to written comments, testified before the Commission
traditional pricing in favor of allocating and
Taxation
Although the cost of each of these provisions may vary from
$2.5 billion annually. On July 30, Dexter F. Baker, Chief
of the Association before the Committee on Ways and Means. In his
Page
27
tax and trade issues.
s position on tax reform legislation may be briefly summarized in
these key points:
o of comprehensive tax reform and President Reagan's
goals of economic growth, fairness and simplicity.
the Administration's May 28, 1985 tax proposals
fail to meet these goals.
o The proposed shift of current individual tax burdens
and more specifically
corporations, will seriously damage the economy and the
for sustained growth.
o In to keep U.S. products competitive in domestic and
world markets, O.S. manufacturers need capital cost
provisions comparable to those our foreign
competitors enjoy. Thus, Congress should maintain the
investment tax credit and Accelerated Cost Recovery System
(ACRS) and should reject the recapture tax on the so-called
from accelerated depreciation.
o The on foreign tax
on an overall
for foreign assets would
should continue be
The proposed change to a
substantially increase the threat
o The "title passage" test should remain the basis for
In addition. Congress should reject the proposed
in the allocation of interest expenses.
o The 25-percent tax credit for research and experimentation
be extended as proposed by the President, and the
moratorium on allocation of research and development
under Regulations 1.861-8 should be made
The House Senate compromise on a Joint Congressional Resolution on
Federal deficits. President Reagan's efforts to secure a compromise on
the Congresssional budget resolution have undercut support for his tax
plan among Senate Republicans, many of whom contend that the
sacrificed a tough Senate budget stance without first obtaining
Senate and House leaders have attacked both the fairness and the
Page
28

increase taxes for many taxpayers. Citing the revenue
Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D-IL) called upon the Administration
where additional revenues could be raised maintain the
appear to have had a major impact on the Congressional tax reform debate.
these circumstances, Congress could have greater latitude "to
CMA is its plan for further early action on this
The community is divided on the merits of the
tax proposal. As the elements of a Congressional tax
will increase significantly. continues coordinate its
Management and Design
National Electrical Code. This code is mandatory for a large
of cities, counties and states and it has a significant cost and
impact on members. The Electrical Codes and Standards Task
member companies are also encouraged to submit comnents. Historically,
million per year cost savings for members.
National Electrical Manufacturers Association Liaison. CMA reviewed
the NEMA Standard Procedure for Evaluating Ground Fault Circuit
for Response to Conducted Radio Frequency Energy.
fault circuit interrupters will not be susceptible to conducted or
radiated radio frequency energy.
486E. CMA reviewed the UL Standard for Safety Equipment
