member company actions improve the effectiveness of all
programs generally. Although reaction the report was favorable,
several of the Association's Officers and Directors requested that
more specific for action be made to the Board respect
to individual programs where there are particular problems
and/or needs. the October Annual Meeting all of the state
areas where believed CMA's Directors could uniquely assist
their program. The CIC/NJ is the first to respond.

The leadership of the acting pursuant to the opportunity made
available as a result of the September Board meeting, suggests that
the following actions be taken by individual companies at the direction
of members of Board.
It is the of the CIC/NJ leadership
that positive action on these recommendations will result in
significantly effectiveness on the part of the It is
also their that direct action by members of CMA's Board and
Company
I
1. That nominees from member companies to the CIC/NJ's
i
membership active committee participation, the CIC/NJ's
programs.
ft
CMA Directors New Jersey operations provide company
support for such legislative issues as air
Availability of Company Technical Experts
That the of Directors be willing to make available, on
an as-needed basis, nationally recognized company technical
i
CMA 038593
process
air toxics
groundwater
cleanup standards
pesticides
Surplus Office Equipment
That companies donate the following surplus (or office
equipment:
i
addressograph
printer compatible Digital computers
surplus desk and conference chairs
Personal CEO/Senior Executive Commitment
That members of the Board of Directors' facilities or
corporate in New Jersey commit to appear at
CIC/NJ press deliver speeches, participate in
media tours, attend editorial board visits major
newspapers on the following chemical industry issues in
support of the advocacy program:
abandoned site cleanup funding
air toxics
groundwater
CAER program
To further chemical industry success on key issues, it is also
requested CEOs/Senior Executives in New Jersey host
private at company facilities with various state
legislators.
Action
indications individual company actions achieve them.
CMA
CMA 038694
E
By William M. Bellamy, Jr.
Tax Policy committee
January 27,
In 1985, Che Policy Committee was very deeply involved in
Responding
reauthorization legislation, the Committee effectively handled a wide
range of tax that could Increase industry tax costs by more
chan $6 annually.
che major tax revision issues that are of continuing concern to the
chemical
These Issues first raised in the context of
che Treasury Department's 1984 Tax Reform Proposals and later In the
preparation CMA's testimony on President Reagan's May 28 tax
before the House Committee on Ways and Means.
shift almost 8140 billion of the Federal Income tax burdens now borne
by the sector.
The President's program would
substantially increase the tax burdens of chat are capital
intensive and that engage in significant international trade.
The specific Issues raised in the President's program are set
out in detail at Tab 6 of our committee report.
For this reason I
will not repeat that discussion except to reiterate why federal tax
issues are so vitally important the chemical Industry.
First, let me emphasize that for many years the chemical
industry has enjoyed one of the most favorable tax positions among
U.S. industrial sectors.
chemical manufacturing Investments for a number of years.
To some
System (ACRS), adopted as part of President Reagan's 1981 tax
program, was provide other industries with tax depreciation
comparable to chat which the chemical industry enjoyed.
industry is among capital intensive industries in che extent
to which it utilize the investment tax credits generated.
In
1985, the industry invested more chan 314 billion In new
qualified che Investment tax credit.
In current dollars, the
investment tax credit reduces the annual tax of the U.S.
trade than many other capital intensive industries.
For example, in 1985 che United States exported chemicals and allied
products a value of $22.2 billion and in chat year imported
CMA 038695
is clear that CMA has a strong, vital interest in tax
legislation that reflects a uniquely chemical industry concern.
We
are under a comprehensive work, plan to defend the
implement plan on Capitol Hill.
We look to positive
achievements in the Senate and in any tax legislation that may be
enacted this year.
In me reiterate what I told you at this time last
year.
The Tax Committee and its members have worked hard this
have devoted a substantial amount of time and effort to achieving the
objectives the Committee.
Again, I am to have served as

taxation, legislative and regulatory, are unsurpassed in their
contribution the well-being of our Industry.
We expect
to continue
record of achievement
in
CMA 038597
F
TAX REFORM
Background:
The House of Representatives narrowly passed H.R. 3838, the Ways and
Reagan's May 28 tax program, H.R. 3838 would provide a massive shift
increase the tax burden of that are capital intensive and
that engage significant international trade. It is conservatively
estimated that the overall impact of H.R. 3838 as passed by the House
CMA Program Development and .Response:
Since 1984, the Tax Policy Committee has focused on the
th Treasury Department's 1984 Tax Proposals and later in
preparation of testimony before the House Committee on Ways and
Means. In the Committee prepared several one-page specific
legislative analyses which the Taxation Task Group of the
Government Relations Comittee has used extensively in our meetings
members and staff.
CMA commissioned Price Waterhouse to conduct a study of effective tax
that these paid an effective tax rate of over 23 percent in
1983, one of the highest effective tax rates paid by any industry
group in year. The Price Waterhouse study has been distributed
widely and being used by CMA in its lobbying efforts on both tax
In addition, CMA provided a grant to the Institute for Research in the
Economics of Taxation for a study on the impact of selected tax
provisions the repeal of the investment tax credit, reduction
and in the tax options under consideration by the
CMA 038598
Committee Hays and Means would have devastating effects
on the U.S. chemical manufacturing industry. Particularly
along with proposed "excess depreciation recapture" and
the alternative minimum taxes. Despite the proposed
reductions statutory tax rates, these changes would raise
companies exposed and would, as a result, materially
slow the in the industry's production facilities and
employment, cost the industry's employees billions of
dollars in real wages, and reduce the output
The position of U.S. chemical manufacturers in
eroded."
On January the Senate Finance Committee announced that it will hold
hearings on tax reform beginning January 29 emphasizing the
of H.R. 3838 for international trade of U.S.
In these hearings, CMA is requesting the opportunity
testify.
Taxation Group have developed a comprehensive legislative
strategy work plan on tax legislation. The Taxation Task
Group has regular meetings this work plan, to share
on tax legislation, and to coordinate CMA activities with
allied associations. has now been joined by other major
over the impact on those policies than was shown in the House.
CMA
CMA 038599

Attachment
1985-1986
JANUARY 13, 1986
l
A. Review Treasury I Plan (completed May 1985)
J
B. Analysis of Treasury II Tax Reform Proposals
1. Analysis (completed July 31, 1985)
2. Statement on Tax for House Ways and
C. Review of H.R. 3838, House-passed Tax Revision Legislation
1. Analysis (under way)
2. of CMA Statement to Reflect Provisions of H.R. 3838
(under way)
D. of Priority Issues by Tax Policy Committee
completed August 13, 1985; reassessment in light of
Means to be scheduled after completion of House-Senate
Conference on Superfund Reauthorization.

A. Price-Waterhouse Study on Effective Tax Rates in the Chemical
Industry.
1. Completed (approved
2. Transmitted to;
August 13, 1985)
Treasury Department (Assistant Secretary for
Tax Policy)
3. Article in Tax Notes (published August 19, 1985)
4. Continued use in Congressional Tax and Superfund advocacy
CMA 038600
B. I RET Study on Impact on Chemical Industry of Proposed Changes
in Tax Treatment of Capital-intensive Investments (completed
and approved December 1, 1985)
A. Basic statement on tax delivered to House ways and
Means 30, 1985)
B. Summary CMA position on tax reform (August 15, 1985)
C. Preparation of Separate Advocacy Documents
a. General Statement (completed July 30, 1985)
b. Brief (completed August 23, 1985)
c. Modification to reflect House passage of H.R. 3838
(under
Specific (in order of
1. Capital Cost Recovery System - Investment Tax Credit
2. Foreign Tax Credit - Per Country
3. Minimum Tax (Administration and H.R. 3838
4. Source For Sales
6. and Development Expenses
7. Section 936 Possessions Credit (Puerto Rico)

Task and (completed, September 13, 198S)
2. Initial Contacts - Contact Teams to focus on results of
advocacy papers, to respond to questions on specific
issues, to schedule return visits (completed
October 1, 1985)
CMA 038601
in these coordinates the tax legislative
activity of the Washington representatives through
B. House Assignments
a. Statement on Tax - Presented by Dexter F.
Baker, President, Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
b. with Professional Staff (continuing)
c. with Committee Staff Leaders (continuing)
d. Meetings with Individual Members
September 13, 1965)
ways and be scheduled after completion of
House-Senate Conference on Superfund Reauthorization.
2. Leadership
a. with House Democratic Leadership (completed
September 17, 1985)
b. with House Republican Leadership (under way)
C. Senate
1. Senate Finance Committee
a. Testify in Hearings on H.R. 3838
(under
b. staff
c. Tax Professionals (continuing)
d. Individual Senators - Specific assignments of Washington
2. Senate leadership - Specific assignments be made after
CMA
CMA on H.R. 3838.
Administration Contacts
A. comments to Treasury by Executive Delegation.
Comments member company CEO's on impact of
Treasury tax plan respect to capital formation and
foreign tax issues as requested in Executive letter from
B. comments to Assistant Secretary Tax Policy
1. Price Study
C. General reservation on opposition mail until after MouseSenate conference on superfund reauthorization legislation.
of Activities with Allied Trade Associations
identification of allied interest groups (completed September 9,
1985)
Specific of task group members to attend/monitor
allied trade group meetings (completed, September 13, 1985)
Transmittal of CMA Tax Policy position to allied trade
associations
2. Revised statement to reflect provisions of H.R. 3838
Response to inquiries. More direct activities be considered


St. Clair Tweedie
Director, Government Relations
American Cyanamid Company
Taxation Task Group
(202)
William Bellamy, Jr.
Chief Counsel
Union Corporation
Tax Policy Committee
(203)
Robert Hill
CMA Executive
CMA

TABLE OF
THE
Page
ADVOCACY
X
2
3
3
4
III.
8
National Chemical Response and InformationCenter (NCRIC)............ 30
53
53
54
55
55
CMA
CMA 038604
OF THE

Congress
The first session of the 99th Congress was an active one for both
adopted the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings bill, a law which
a balanced budget by fiscal 1991 and requires Presidential
order to achieve deficit targets each year, if Congress and
the do not meet deficit targets through legislative action each
year.
The passed a comprehensive tax reform The reduces
tax rates for individuals; increases the personal exemption and the
deduction for individuals; reduces real estate tax shelters;
repeals the investment tax credit; reduces five corporate brackets to
current level; establishes a broad-based 25 percent minimum tax for both
corporations and individuals and establishes less favorable depreciation
1989; and authorize a total of $12 billion for sewage construction
grants and $9 billion for water pollution control through 1990.
in differing by both the House and Senate and now
mechanism and program issues.
Congress passed the Textile and Apparel Trade Enforcement Act and
sent to the President. It was vetoed on December 17, hours before it
would become law without signature. The was designed
and regulate textile imports, yet maintain a level of foreign
high enough to allow consumer choice.
Page
I
CMA
Congressional session is very unpredicatable at this time
the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction law presents Congress
many new challenges. Add to this the usual uncertainties of an
election year and 1986 will add up to another difficult year for the

Federal Regulatory Agencies
Toxic Substances Control Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and the
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).
Regulatory activities
under the are especially vigorous, and RCRA implementation during the
next will be dynamic.
Food and Drug Administration The recent decision by FDA to
at a of one in a million is a major step away from the 2ero risk
The decision is sure to be challenged, but it dramatizes a
zero even for carcinogens in food, is an unacceptable public policy.
It adds another case to a growing set that endorses a lifetime risk
of in a million as a future standard.
OSHA Chemical industry Program, on November 4, 1985, OSHA
established a pilot National Emphasis Program for programmed inspections
approach. During the first year of the program, eighty plant
will be inspected by qualified compliance officers who will
Safety s Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA is also
education and training programs. This program will become effective in
May
proposed a natural gaa block billing rule that could cost the chemical
$600 million a year if not modified.
U.S. Department of Energy The Secretary of Energy, John
He indicated that an Administration is preferable to
any of the several gas pending, and their should be
for Congress in January 1986.

2
CMA
also plana to send National Energy Policy Plan V to Congress
The plans are required every two years as updates of federal
policies.
States
at any level of government depends on early warning, rapid
and early involvement. Modern technology, ie. the computer, has
political process. CMA State Affairs Division is now implementing our new

should be noted, however, that many of the state CICs will need
additional funding for their effective participa tion in this vital
