Exhibit C
PROPOSED
ON
LEVEL CONTROL STRATEGY ANOMALIES
When P.L. 91-604, Clean Air Act Amendments of 1970, was
it was expected that national ambient air quality
(NAAQS) would be met nationwide by 1975 or mid-1977
at the latest.
Timely compliance has not been achieved for th
Oxidant (ozone) levels are being exceeded in 74 regions, nearly
all of which encompass chemical industry concentrations.
prove technical understanding for enforcing the NAAQS, EPA
in 1974-75 focused on the contribution of urban ozone pre­
cursor emissions ambient ozone concentrations and on the rel­
ative of local ozone formations and long range transport.
gle sources, EPA now is acting to require com­
with P.L. 91-604.
of hydrocarbon emissions from
mobile and stationary sources will be required, in spite of the
the occurrence of high ozone concentrations at any given
site.
In provide data as the effectiveness
control strategies, the Air Quality Committee (AQC)
from point sources and ozone levels.
The study needs to be undertaken now so that the results can
be available prior to the adoption of hydrocarbon controls, ex­
during the second quarter of 1977.
The proposed to
be by the Radian Corporation, will cost $54,500.
metropolitan areas would be analyzed, selected as rep­
and non-chemical areas (e.g., Denver).
organized on a uniform basis, and placed on magnetic tape
for data reduction after certification of the basic validity of
the Ambient air data will be obtained for comparable time
and qualified to be certain that it is correct, is rep-
CMA
data.
Correlations then will be drawn among high hourly ozone
values, their persistence, annual average concentration of
and hydrocarbon emissions. A special analysis will be
made of unusual episodes and particular attention will be given
sual episodes.
A will be prepared describing the results
and in retrospect, current or proposed hydrocarbon con­
trol strategies would have worked to reduce ozone levels in the
be
The final report will include data describing regional var­
of the regional control strategies themselves.
could
be extended to define which hydrocarbon species need to be con­
trolled first or most, whether drastic reductions in auto traffic
of exceeding the standards by different amounts and

MCA

NA
