Exhibit I
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
John B. Clark, Chairman
Patent and Trademark Committee
September 14,
1976
you will recall that it is the responsibility of the Patent
nd Trademark Committee to maintain an awareness of new developments
in the industrial property field having present or prospective impact
on the chemical industry; MCA positions where warranted,
and to act either directly or through the Board of Directors, as is
in making MCA viewpoints known.
Last October I had the opportunity to report to you on the
status of patent legislation in the Congress.
You will recall it was
predicted that S-2255 would be passed by the Senate and forwarded to
^he House for their consideration.
You will also recall that in the
Hkinion of your Patent Committee, S-2255 is an ill-conceived piece of
legislation which will have a serious negative impact on the value
of the patent system.
S-2255 was passed by the Senate and sent to the House
little substantive amendment despite serious efforts by MCA and others
, to modify and improve objectionable sections.
As of today, it appears
unlikely that the House subcommittee responsible for patent legislation
will get to 'S-2255 this year, and as a result, it will die this
Congress.
this is welcome news in that it maintains the status
quo for the time we can very likely expect renewed activity
next year.
I should note that several changes are needed to improve the
sponsored by Rep. Wiggins of California.
Rep. Wiggins is minority
leader of the House subcommittee concerned patent legislation
he appears to be concerned preserving and strengthening the
system.
Our is prepared to continue to assist in the
wil1 be geared in this direction.
I wish to speak briefly about what is happening in the area, but before proceeding in that direction, I should note
at
Patent Committee has also provided comments to on a
^ patent
we recommended a policy designed
037054
a and experience in the energy field.
To this
we urged of a policy which would provide a flexible approach
to ownership of patents resulting from Government-sponsored R&D, and wh
would permit the Government Administrator to grant exclusive or
partially licenses to energy inventors where title is vested
To proceed with developments in the international area,
you are all aware of the changing attitudes of many of the Developing
Countries,
in the industrial property and technology transfer areas,
this has in new laws in Mexico and other South American
J
countries, a new law in Canada, and a great deal of activity
in various and the Organization of American States, etc. !
Since a number MCA member companies are concerned these changes,
we are seeking to define the part MCA should play in this connection.
to date our activity has been limited, we have been consulted
by and have our comments to the U.S. Government negotiators
with regard to efforts by Developing Countries to change the Paris
Convention on and trademarks.
In addition, and response to ;
Taiwan affecting chemical industry, an Ad Hoc Group of Patent
Committee members, together the U.S. Assistant Commissioner of
Patents, were to meet the Taiwanese Minister of Economic
Affairs to assist in understanding the economic consequences of whai
they were proposing do.
This meeting was and it appeared to
and that the proposed change will be moderated.
We will gain a better
feel for this as we Patent Office decisions in the future.

On another front, is proposing a number of radical
changes to their patent law, which, if accepted, would substantially
reduce the attractiveness of seeking patents in Canada.
Commissioner of together with a small industry group, has
to discuss the of adoption.
this is not
an MCA Patent Coirmittee activity, we are heavily represented.
The
delegation is intended to be a cross-section of U.S. industry, and in
addition MCA members DuPont, Phillips, Merck, and Monsanto, both
IBM and G.E. will
The meeting is scheduled October 21
and preparations are in swing.
Finally, it is my strong that MCA must continue to
play a role and we will be attempting to define this role
more clearly in the coming year.
037055
