CMA
CMA 038193
G
OF THE OF
JON C. HOLTZMAN
the active participation of officers and a number of board
members the communication program, initiated two months ago, has
moved into gear. That effort will continue over the next several months
as we expand our of contacts to include regional media.
The contacts discussions that are not limited to the Superfund
issue but bring Clean Sites, Inc., general industry attitudes of cooperation
agreement with many of the points we raise.
beginning to come in more balanced reporting. But there is still a long way
NEW RESOURCES; members of member company staffs with special expertise
in Superfund have been recruited to either accompany board members or
directly handle with regional news media. All have received special
Gene Tom Heilman, Allied; Lee Nute, Dow; Mike Pierle, Monsanto;
and Julie Cyanamid.
Interviews have conducted at the following publications:
Fernandez and New York Times (interview
editorial writer; Fernandez); Washington Post (interviews with editorial
writer and Fernandez and Congressional Quarterly
Los Herald Examiner (Street).
Chemical Reporter; Chemical Week; Journal of Commerce;
Chemical News; Hazardous Waste Report; Toxic Materials
News; Environment Reporter; Inside EPA; Industry Week; Industrial
Chemical News and CPI Purchasing.
e
Briefings are for the following publications:
(Holmer, sella)
e
National journal, Newsweek, L.A. Times, Boston Globe, Chicago
Sun-Times, Atlanta Journal, etc. Scheduling is continuing.

CMA 038194

at 26 states, been distributed to nearly
programs will be from the TV pieces
individually
300 stations. The
reported. (Radio
In addition, 2 programs on Superfund issues have been
buted nationally 2400 stations. A program was developed
and distributed hazardous waste generated and disposed of by
consumers.
WASTE HANDLING AND DISPOSAL: has begun to "scout" company and EPA
National Priority List sites for shooting locations for the new waste site
cleanup film. The film will document progress on site cleanup and-will be
The department is coordinating planning activities for a telenews conference
(scheduled for 31) on establishment of Clean Sites Inc. and assisting in
coordination of activities for the press conference on announcement of
CSX.
COMMERCIAL OF CHEMICALS: Five programs were distributed
during the period on risks vs. benefits; the importance of household
chemicals and 3 programs on EDB.
production and (from Nashville, site of the Conference) on the
were produced and distributed on these issues. In addition, the Department
Marshville, N.C. April. Among other things, the Department distributed,
by satellite, fc news release on (which was used by at least
3 North Carolina In addition, a TV newsfeature was produced and
distributed the period on new cargo reservation laws and their effect
A special program for media tour spokespersons was
conducted.
I
i
I



I
issued its third of consumer oriented programs on the importance of
chemicals, their benefits and their proper use and safety.
The series is inhouse at CMA and distributed to radio
stations.
a phenominal participation. In addition the stations the material also
goes to 400 home extension economists, many of whom write newsletters or
newspaper columns.
i
I
i
CMA 038195

1
-3Members a sample of the program should write Linda Edwards,
communications department.
REGIONAL
The raw data has come in from the survey of the media made after the
Louisiana Chemical Association made its series of media tours in late
1983. The data compared attitudes surveyed about a year earlier. The
results are impressive.
e
40 percent of the mpdia found the relationship between the chemical
industry and the media was "excellent" or "good" in 1984, compared
to 23 percent in 1983.
e
80 percent rated the industry "excellent" or "good" at providing
useful information in 1984, compared to 54 percent in 1983.
e
77 percent rated the industry "excellent" or "good" at providing
comprehensive in 1984, compared to 19 percent in 1983.
e
71 percent rated the industry "excellent" or "good" at providing
accurate in 1984, compared to 55 percent in 1983.
The media also rated the industry significantly higher in their percep­
A sobering fact: the second survey, conducted a year later, found that
25 percent of reporters and editors originally surveyed had moved on to
Book is in the hands of CMA executive contacts and key industry government
on a quarterly unless there is a rapidly changing issue which demands
reproduce and distribute the material internally!
action. Special attention was devoted to groundwater, chemophobia, balan­
press reporting and issues which might follow hazardous waste management
as media focus of attention.
228 schools, a permanent part of their library. Projection: more
than 500 by July 31.
CMA
CMA 038196
h
THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. STOVER
NATIONAL
KEY CHEMICAL TAX ISSUES IN DEFICIT REDUCTION
TAX CONFERENCE
Following the Easter Congressional recess, the Senate attempted to
complete the expenditure reduction provisions of H.R. 2163, the Federal
Boat Safety Act and the focus for the Senate's deficit reduction budget
are of great the chemical industry:
o
the Administration's Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) provisions to
provide a alternative to replace the Domestic Inter­
national Sales Corporation provision of the Internal Revenue
Code;
o
a two-year of the moratorium on Treasury Regulations
development foreign source income;
o
provisions modify and to make permanent the research and
experimentation credit.
industry, there other important provisions in this legislation. For
example, both House and Senate would impose much tighter control
income tax would be allowed until performance" occurs.
The Senate also contains an election to allow a less restrictive
method in the of the reclamation and costs of mines and in the
Superfund This provision could be of crucial importance to the
The total fiscal impact of this legislation on the chemical industry
is difficult However, the value of the provisions for the
for allocating research and development expenses to foreign income,
and to modify to make permanent the research and experimentation tax
credit are estimated to exceed $3 billion. Because of the many provisions
in this legislation that would affect corporate activities, CMA
carefully and to contact House and Senate conferees about their concerns.
CMA is working allied trade associations and
Senate to the Foreign Sales Corporation and to extend the
moratorium on $861 research and development allocation regulations.
CMA 038197

PATENT RESTORATION
For almost three and a half years, has participated in a
Washington coalition under the leadership of the
Manufacturers to support passage of the Patent Term
Restoration Act. This important legislation would extend patent life on
products that must undergo prolonged periods of government-mandated testing
and review. The organized opposition to this legislation has focused on
the impact the legislation would have on the generic drug industry.
To resolve this opposition and impasse, PMA earlier this year proposed
a two-title that would contain both patent term restoration and
abbreviated new provisions (that would enable generic drug
manufacturers to enter the market more easily than under the present
Waxman's staff unable to reduce this agreement in principle to
introduced H.R. the Agricultural Patent Reform Act. This legis­
chemicals to premanufacture notification under TSCA. On May 3,
behalf of CMA, and the Animal Health Institute.
support passage of H.R. 5529, and, in addition, will cooperate PMA to
support a more if acceptable compromise language can be
ENERGY AND SUPPLIESt
NATURAL GAS LEGISLATION
The House and Commerce Committee reported on April 12 a natural
gas designed to put a cap on natural gas prices until 1987
Major include a freeze on above market prices until January
1, 1985, forced renegotiation of certain high-priced gas and a two-year
ceiling on price escalators in gas contracts unless the
contracts are renegotiated. Take-or-pay obligations are limited to fifty
percent of volumes, minimum between pipelines and
distributors are eliminated and a prudency standard for pipelines
purchasing gas established. H.R. 4277 was sponsored by Representatives
(R-IL-15), and Thomas J. Tauke (R-IA-2) and represents a dramatic
turnaround from the earlier subcommittee reported version.
The objective of the 22 members supporting H.R. 4277 was to report a
quickly without amendments. Commitments were obtained by the
to support the and all amendments were defeated. Proponents of
CMA 038198
decontrol and Democrats have labeled the a
the legislation would create. The is similar in many respects to
earlier Gas Association and Citizens Labor Energy Coalition
supported
the reported without amendment, commitments may not
hold and considerable debate could occur in the Rules Committee and on the
House floor. may not be committed the as drafted,
but he has the prospects reasonable for getting a vote from the
filed and a has not yet been requested.
The Rules could report the in such a way that
all sides in the controversy an opportunity for amendments or substitute
versions. The Majority Leader does not support the drafted
its aspects. On the other hand, the Speaker of the House
has indicated support for an even more restrictive version.
to H.R. 4277 every effort will be made to prevent passage of the
punitive legislation in its present CMA has stated the status quo is
House floor.
that H.R. 4277 be amended to lessen the negative impact of price
caps and freezes. The Administration has also registered its opposition
and predicted if the were enacted, new gas production would be
discouraged and a serious gas shortage could be created once the current
glut is used Energy Secretary Donald P. Hodel, together with
Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is expected
to seek changes in the legislation.
Activity in the House is being closely watched by a coalition of
Senators who trying to develop a compromise Senate Energy
negotiating The House reported runs counter to many of the
principles supported by the Senate leadership and the recent proposal under
discussion, but passage of a House could return natural gas
legislation to Senate floor. A series of "quick-fix" natural gas
Proponents of could also filibuster any effort to pass a
similar to the House version.
TRADE REMEDIES
The House Ways and Means Committee reported out the Trade Remedies
Reform Act of 1984 the Gibbons in early April. It is
as reported, essentially the same as the subcommittee version the
only change the deletion of the section dealing
non-market economy imports. The Senate Finance Committe has held hearings
CMA 038199

1
on a to this issue, but no markup is currently scheduled.
authority to countervailing duties against imported material
manufactured from raw materials priced below export or fair market values.
This same section of the establishes a mechanism to deal with industry
dumping.
The is opposed to these provisions and attempted
unsuccessfully strike them at the committee markup. CMA member
causing the Executive Committee to take no position on the Gibbons

While no floor action is currently planned on the Gibbons in the
the were to pass both Houses of Congress, there is widespread belief
that the President would veto it.
possible revisions the trade remedy laws focusing on Sections 201, 232,
301 and 332 of Trade Act.
NATIONAL ECONOMIC
U.S./CANADA TRADE AGREEMENT
a free trade for six industrial sectors including
petrochemicals. The Canadian Chemical Producers Association has
coordinated its government in preliminary efforts preceding actual
negotiations. has also asked the government for lower natural gas
prices to make industry more competitive and the free trade agreement
more beneficial. A well-written report on this issue has been published by
Toronto, The petrochesiicals chosen by the Canadians be included
in the free trade agreement were provided at that meeting, it was
the free proposal would be welcomed.
A survey questionnaire was presented to the Executive Committee on
Tuesday, May 8 was designed provide the requested reaction. The
referred the matter back to the International Trade Committee for further
study.
U.S./ISRAEL TRADE AGREEMENT
Representative Thomas J. Downey introduced a 5377)
in April which, if passed, would authorize the United States to enter into
duty free trade betwe n the two nations. Mr. Downey's has yet to
undergo in the House, and none are scheduled.
CMA

Although Senator John Danforth had intention* of introducing a
companion in the Senate, he has since decided instead to attach the
Downey as an amendment to some as yet unannounced The Senate
Finance Committee held an executive session on May 10 to consider the
concept of a U.S./Israel free trade arrangement. Although a motion by
industry from authority failed, U.5. Trade Representative
William Brock on record as offering assurances that all due
consideration be given to the concerns of the industry.
conducting an (Inv. 332-180) into the probable economic
hearings occurred in April, the report on the investigation is not due to
be released May 30. The reports that no other chemical sector
has expressed over the prospects of a U.S./Israel free trade
agreement.
In addition to the concerns of the bromine segment of the chemical
industry over issue, the proposed U.S./Israel free trade arrangement
raises an additional concern, especially for the petrochemical sector. The
government of Saudi Arabia has informed the U.S. Trade Representative that
it expects the same free trade agreement given Israel.
RECIPROCITY LEGISLATION
The Reciprocal Trade and Investment Act of 1984 continues to be
stalled in the Congress. is in favor of the enactment of the bill,
one of the positive pieces of trade legislation before the Congress.
passed by the Senate twice during this Congress. It has been on the
Senate for consideration since February, but continues to be
bumped down in priority due largely to the efforts of organised labor.
would companies to move their manufacturing facilities overseas
causing a loss of jobs.
CMA continues to plan an active role in the coalition seeking
passage of legislation.
The System of Preferences (GSP) provides for duty-free
treatment for into the United states of certain articles, including
chemicals, in developing countries. Chemical imports under
this duty-free system totaled $400 million in 1982. Some of these cause
been in effect since 1976, is due to expire in January 1985, and must
either be or extended by this Congress if it is continue.
The offered a proposal for the program's renewal (S. 1718)
which was introduced in the last session of Congress by Senator John
Danforth by request. This was recently reported out by the
CMA 038201
CMA's Myron T. Fovedux testified before the Senate Finance Committee's
International Subcommittee on January 27 on behalf of both CMA and
the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturers Association in favor
recommended. GSP hearings were held on February 8 and 9 by the
Although the GSP renewal proposal has not been
introduced in House, Representative Pease has introduced a
5136) reauthorize the program. It requires adherence to
numerous fair law principles as a condition for GSP eligibility. It
also contains a system for permanently removing countries from eligibility,
one of CMA's for GSP renewal. CMA's International Trade
language for in the GSP renewal
PRODUCT
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION
hearings have been held in both the Senate Commerce
Subcommittee Surface Transportation and the House Public works and
Transportation Committee on the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act
Testimony was received from a variety of public and private sector
repres seeking amendments to the HMTA. Despite the efforts of the
without legislative amendments will be passed in this session
of Congress.
of opinion exist over the roles of federal, state and
Dispute also on the need for and amount of funding for a national
fee, system for carriers, shippers and container manufacturers in exchange
address many of the issues pending at the Department of Transportation
determine the for transporters notify municipalities before trans­
porting materials through them, and to evaluate federal emergency
of hazardous regulation. Internal review also focuses on the
PRODUCT
Concern has expressed by coalitions among the aluminum, chemical,
R
Rail

railroad Captive traffic has been particularly impacted by the
monopolistic of the railroads. Issue areas under discussion include
the revenue of railroads, market dominance and pro-competitive
features.
Senator John Danforth is circulating draft language for a Joint
Congressional Resolution that would deal with how the Interstate Commerce
Commission is implementing the staggers Rail Act of 1980. The
be introduced within two weeks and hearings are expected to
be scheduled. The Joint Resolution would have the effect of law if passed
CMA is supporting the introduction of the Joint Resolution directing
papers and language has been submitted Congressional staff and
ENERGY AMD SUPPLIES;
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS LEGISLATION
The Senate and Natural Resources Committee began markup of
S. 1678 by James A. McClure is the markup vehicle.
energy have been introduced by Senators Bill Bradley and
Dave
The markup is scheduled to continue on May 16, 23 and possibly
beyond that. chances of reporting out a are uncertain due to
considerable Debate continues over the federal government's
proper role a petroleum shortfall. Other issues of concern include
preemption of state laws and antitrust and conflict of interest exemptions
energy
Many are being prepared and are expected to include standby
the poor and others likely to suffer during an oil shortage. The
has suggested changes to the McClure in support of
appropriate without price and allocation authority. In 1981
President vetoed a standby petroleum allocation
CMA supports basic free market approach of the McClure and
several parts of the Bradley The viewpoint is, however, that
social for the economically disadvantaged should not be mixed with
national policy. The Durenberger is not supported by the
COMMERCIAL OF CHEMICALS;
TSCA
In the David Durenberger*s subcommittee staff continues
CMA 038203
The first piece should be available in the next month, and
section 4 rule process, perceived as too slow and unwieldy under
present (2) a PMN test data requirement, on a rebuttable
presumption basis, for new chemicals; an attempt to reduce claims for
confidential alleged to be excessive under present
law; and (4) means of getting CPA to make greater use of section 6
In response to these proposals, we have shared Senate staff the
o
Negotiated agreements have improved the section 4 process,
and ought to be recognized in the law.
o
greater assurances' as the adequacy of the PMN review, in
essence, the would evaluate the potential human health
conditions of manufacture, use and exposure.
o
be used at the appropriate time to improve the outcome of Senate and
House efforts to amend TSCA. In the House, Mr. Florio's to amend TSCA
4304) is in a holding pattern, pending developments on Superfund
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH:
The Senate Labor Subcosraittee hearing April 23 focused on
occupational disease in general, and asbestos in particular. The hearing
was the of a series that will be continuing through the months of May
protect workers from asbestos, and other deadly substances, a public health
tragedy. The usual grim statistics were reported by a colleague of
Dr. Selicoff's, such as the 350,000 asbestos-related deaths to date, and he
Finally, a Rand study reports that asbestos victims receive only 1/3 of the
dollars paid out, while 2/3 goes for legal expenses.
Noteworthy however, was the way in which Don Nickles (R-OK)
framed the by asking: first, is there a national asbestos crisis,
and second, so, what should be done about it? Balance was brought to
the hearing, which cast some doubt on the assumption that asbestos is a
national crisis. Two eminent medical research doctors made a strong case
compensating asbestos victims. Fred Baron, a leading attorney for asbestos
victims, and active in the Trial Lawyers Association, conceded there is no
current litigation crisis, and our tort system has evolved rapidly and
responsibily to deal asbestos victims. (He blames insurance companies
CMA 038204

as the causa of problems, but says that may soon be solved through
the group's proposed solution.) He concluded by saying, "X
believe it be unwise, at this time, to consider a legislative
of the benefit delivery mechanism now in effect."
while Chairman Nickles' hearing initially focused on asbestos, we are
watching closely for any broadening to other substances/diseases. In
particular, are watching Senator Quayle's effort to find a sponsor for
the asbestos manufaeturers/users limited to asbestos,
and an as yet unseen proposal by Senator Kennedy not limited to asbestos.
Congressman Miller's 3175) remains status quo in the House.
edition of reauthorization legislation, H.R. 5640. Florio*s
Committee. The Florio is still unacceptable, but has a few changes
such as for five years, an amendment to CERCLA, no
House, a few influential House Democratic committee chairmen and
key House House Speaker "Tip" O'Neill has told the Democrats
he wants the Superfund work completed in the committees and ready for floor
force this into the national limelight to make it a Presidential
Committee. Roe, who is a co-sponsor of Florio's bill, will not resume the
Superfund hearings until June, and will testify at these hearings.
June.
CMA to pursue a very aggressive lobbying effort aimed at the
key members of these three House Committees. The CMA Grassroots effort is
Committees. is working on the issues of funding level and mechanism,
other key
hearings in Senate Environment and Public works Committee. CMA
testified May 16, and Mr. Edwin Holmer, President of Exxon Chemical
Corporation and Chairman of CMA's Board of Directors, presented the
CMA 038206

i
o
the annual of funding which the Superfund needs and EPA
o
joint and several liability;
o
the impact of a substantial increase in the feedstock
tax;
o
the of a waste-end tax;
o
o
victims
legislation in June.
postponed until after the Congressional Memorial Day recess. Since
the was originally reported from the Environment and Public Works
Committee a number of controversial amendments have surfaced which would
shortened Congressional calendar due to the upcoming Democratic and
Republican the Senate leadership apparently is unwilling
The more amendments which have delayed consideration of
subject to regulations. There are some 15 - 20 other amendments to
which together would require substantial time to consider.
CMA's continue be geared toward adoption of a reasonable
surface amendment. The latest draft surface
amendment most of the major provisions endorsed by CMA.
However, ponds or ponds in which no treatment is occuring
would not exempted from the double liner requirement. CMA has
approached Senate Environment and Public Works Committee staff
be However, it does not appear as though these ponds will be
covered in final version of the Committee surface
amendment.
(R-NH) that up $50 million of the Superfund is to perform
health of populations surrounding landfills and surface
continues be reviewed by CMA's technical staff. will
should they be deemed necessary.
CMA 038206

CLEAN WATER ACT
Subcommittee on May 1
10. The H.R. 3282, was introduced by Committee
last summer, amended in the Water Resources
and the Committee on May 10.
H.R. 3282 contains few significant over the existing
Clean Act, for the chemical industry. The Best Available Technology
The Pretreatment Study provision in the could yield good
program.
There are adverse amendments in the Committee-passed bill,
including Post-BAT requirements, EPA administrative civil penalties
authority, and felony sanctions.
reflected priorities for improvement in the However,
basically the line on his House floor action on H.R. 3282
depends upon the limited time remaining on the House calendar.
In the Senate, the Committee approved S. 431 and S. 2006,
providing Clean Water Act amendments, could be considered anytime. The
passage of a House committee may provide impetus for Senate floor
SAFE WATER ACT (SDWA)
Senator bill, S. 2649, to reauthorize the Safe Drinking
Water Act, was introduced on May 8. The Senate Subcommittee on Toxic
Substances and Environmental Oversights held a one day hearing on May 14.
CMA will sometime in early June.
Senator appears to be a substantial improvement
over the version of the Safe Drinking Water Act, H.R. The
Senate does not change the definition of a "drinking water source" nor
as does House Although the contains language in its goals
and policy section which refers to the "protection of groundwater sources
the groundwater issue should be separate from any Safe
Drinking Water Act legislation. An area of concern the Senate is
the of cost considerations in "feasible" technology.
and Public Works and maybe considered by the full Senate
on Health of the Energy and Commerce Committee has given no
CMA 038207
that ha will schadula hearings for H.R. in tha foreseeable
future.
CLEAN AIR
On May 2, House Health and Environment Subcommittee considered the
hazardous air pollutant sections of H.R. 5314. This was introduced by
Henry Waxman (D-CA). Congressman John
chairman of the full Energy and Commerce Committee, offered a
H.R. 5314. The Subconsaittee can vote on the substitute whenever
Waxman reconvenes the Subcommittee.
H.R. 5314 of hazardous air pollutant provisions only, since
May 2 when the acid rain provisions which industry opposed were'voted out
(hazardous pollutants) are working to win at least one vote necessary for
approval of the substitute. CMA also is developing materials to
assist in any full committee consideration of hazardous air pollutants. In
addition, and industry continues to urge that constructive amendments
on PSD non-attainment, for example, be included in any clean air
that in the House this year.
clean air bill S. 768 was issued on May 3. S. 768 now appears on the
on acid control, such as S. 768 contains, and lack of House progress
toward a explain Senate inaction at present.
STATE LEVEL COMMUNICATION AND COORDINATION
STATE LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
For the balance of the year, some states will be addressing issues
of great to our industry. In Pennsylvania and Michigan the
industry trying to work out a compromise on right to know; New Jersey
and are working on the public compensation issue and
Louisiana is promoting a large number of hazardous waste proposals. Tha
CIC's, industry personnel and CMA will continue to work on these issues.
There has been some restructuring and strengthening of some of
counsel some states, many organizations have been extremely
their legislative activities.
will prasant discussions on Environmental Conflict Managamant,
Worker to Know, Groundwater, Superfund and Public Compensation. The
National Governors Association's annual meeting will Include soma
on acid rain, groundwater and toxics integration.
Members the Environmental Task Group will be participating in an
air risk assessment workshop sponsored by the Northeast States for
Air Use Management (NESCAUM). The purpose of the meeting is
how toxic air contaminant risk evaluation processes are employed.
The Materials Transportation Task Group participated in
the conference of the Hazardous Materials Advisory Council
was held in Arlington, Virginia. The conference was
attended by federal and state regulatory officials, state legislators
and of industry. Discussion centered on restrictions on
hazardous materials transportation and cooperative efforts to find
solutions.
KEY
AND HAZARDOUS WASTE
Although a number of state legislatures have already adjourned, some
have been introduced the New Jersey Spill Compensation and
tax. Other favorable changes include the followingt
o
o
for exemptions from the proposed new tax for
beneficially reused or recycled material.
o
companies which transport hazardous waste to another
Jersey tax amount.
or in disposal techniques or sites without legislative approval.
CMA 038209
has been introduced in Michigan to replace
material in underground tanks to carry liability insurance. Claims could
have made by people exposed to the hazardous waste. The new
It is
RIGHT TO KNOW
Although the briefing schedule has now been finalized for the
litigation on the federal hazard communication standard, no decision is
expected before next year. Plans are also moving forward under the
auspices of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce to challenge the New
In other states, the deadlock in the Michigan Senate Labor Committee
over the competing labor and industry right to know
are continuing, no movement of the labor is foreseen at
this A House floor vote is expected in Pennsylvania in late May on
have increased significantly in recent months.
t
The Governor has signed legislation in Iowa and another in
is expected to be signed in the near future. Neither of
these will have a significant adverse impact on the chemical
Other activity is ongoing in Louisiana,
Rhode Island and Florida. The Louisiana and Florida
are the most significant.
activity is still pending on onerous statutes in New
Jersey, Massachusetts and Illinois.
J
I

The public compensation situation has stabilized during the past
month. New Jersey remains the only major threat to pass legislation this
year. However, as more time passes before the hearing process begins, the
likelihood for passage this session diminishes significantly.
In states, the study commission in Massachusetts continues to
meet take testimony weekly. A report is expected before the end of the
in New is focused on changing the existing statute of limitations for
tort claims from the present restrictive rule to the more liberal and
generally accepted discovery rule, other states with the potential for
this year are California and Illinois.
l
I

1
i
CMA 038210
AIR
of the Massachusetts air toxic program is nearing
completion. A Chemical Health Effects Methodology provides for
regulations and standards adopted for those substances which are
ranked highest on the list. The final result of this methodology could
be an ambient emissions for a given air toxic. The state
agency has generated possible ambient numbers for 100 of 440
members feel that a more complete description is needed on how cancer
potency is derived and there is a need to develop a system which allows for
The toxics program is scheduled for completion by July of
this Maine will begin to develop an air toxics program sometime
KEY
WATER
of in the toxicological field. The rules impose standards on eight
all water systems serving more than 25 customers be tested every three
years for traces of vinyl chloride and benzene, known carcinogens, as well
KEY
increase. Legislation which has been introduced in California would create
environmental agents. Michigan's bill, if passed, would require the
complete epidemiologic surveys of cancer related diseases and to apply
preventive and control measures. A number of other states
similar legislation.
KEY

legislation has been introduced in Pennsylvania would
place additional requirements and restrictions on many industry
Industry's concerns the include the following:
o
or 55 gallons.
CMA
o
of drivers.
o
The Fire Commissioner is directed write regulations
"reasonably" restricting the transport of hazardous
o
to notify suppliers and transporters with whom they
do about requirements.
The Pennsylvania Chemical industry Council has been very active
this issue and will be the coordinating mechanism for future action
this as it becomes necessary.
f
