G
TO BOARD 0F
MANUFACTU'RNG CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
JOSEPH SANIFDRD. JR., CHAIRMAN
CHEMICAL COMMITTEE
NOVEMBER
1975
emphaslze major areas 7 regulatlons and leglslatlon.
Our
objectlve 15 to provlde background on our Commlttee operi
atlons and how we are asslstlng each of our companles achleve
both 1n packaglng and regulatory compllance.
Tunes have changed!
Just a years ago, a chemlcal
packaglng -ng1neer mlght be concentratlng on the steel thlckness
of a drum for solvents. the molsture barrler 1n 3 bag for plastlc
reslns, a funglclde box closure.
Today, he also know
about the Transportatlon Safety Act of 1974, the consolldatlon
of DDT the .Metrlc Converslon Act of 1975, 1nteri
natlonal regulatlons, and, looklng the future, regi
ulatlons -n solld waste dlsposal and carclnogens.
What has thls change 1n our Commlttee's
ities? We belleve the most 1mportant factor 15 the concern on
the part .5 both the prlvate and publlc sectors for greater
safety 1n the packaglng, transportatlon and dlstrlbutlon of haz*
ardous malerlals.
The Depar-ment of Transportatlon's past two
annual on hazardous materlals control are more speclflc
about concern over safety.
In these Iwo years, 59 fatalltles
and over injuries occurred 1n all hazardous materlals
1nc1dents of whlch over 50% 1nvolved chemlcal products.
The De*
partment Transportatlon, or as we usually say "DDT", also
115:: the ten worst accldents for each year? 70% of these
valved ch-mlcal 1ndustry products Hlth a total of nlne fatalltles
1: 15 for reasons llke thls that the
The major leglslatlve act affectlng our actlvltles
15 the Tr.nsportatlon Safety Act of 1974, passed by Congress
1n early
Key 1nclude:
extended regulate package unloadlng, certaln
types of and shlpment routlng.
CMA
for obtalnlng package exemptlons are
made much more complex.
and even commodltles not presently deflned as

Crlmlnal .5 well as clvll penaltles can be 1mposed
years now 1ncluded.
In the Eleld, DDT has just lssued 1::
complete of Tltle 49 of the Code of Federal
and packaglng of hazardous materlals.
has been nler four years 1n preparatlon and 1ncozporates many
shlpment of chemlcal packages.
1: creat-s a metrlc board to oversee Voluntary converslon 1n the
Unlted Slates.
export p.ckag1ng Hlth domestlc packages golng metrlc over the
next ten years.
Our llal'on Canadlan MCA member companles

to be aw.re of Unlted Natlons and xMco regulatlons and approprlate
r511 and truck regulatlons 1n the Varlous countrles whlch we
Ship.
mental M.r1t1me Consultatlve Drganlzatlon, are contalned 1n an
dlsposal leglslatlon recently enacted
has not .ffected packaglng.
However. leglslatlon proposed but
not would have 1mposed a fee on packaglng materlals
that are not reusable or recyclable.
Regulatl-ns and leglslatlon whlle deeply 1nvolved
DDT recD-nlzes
thls to = degree and has 1ntroduced the term "cost/beneflt" be
1n any revlews of package regulatlon changes.

The 1ndustry
uses 50 million new and recondltloned steel and flbre drums
annually at a cost of about 5500 mllllon.
to hold -ur plastlcs, agrlcultural chemlcals and aclds at an
CMADB712D
of $300 million.
We use some sun mllllon bags and
The tot.l annual cost of packaglng
of
Perhaps of equal unportance from a solld waste dlsposal
mllllon pounds of wood.
groups .nd subcommlttees reflect our concern over regulatlons
we are to 55515: our 1ndustry.
First, recently formed a new regulatlons and leglsi
latlon to control all of our actlvltles 1n thls
area as metrlcatlon. definitions of hazardous materlals.
liaison DDT and our actlvltles on the 1ntercomm1ttee group
Hlth initial efforts emphaslzlng proper 1ncluslon of
The Packages Subcommlttee 15 a tech?
and small quantltles.
A task has developed technlcal bulletlns on
proper for loadlng, braclng and blocklng 1n truck,
r511 and plggyback shlpments.
safe but don't really speclfy effectlve technlques.
A proposed hazardous materlals regulatlon spec*
lfled Iestlng requlrements that current acld Carboy: would not
pass.
A task group worked closely Hlth suppllers to develop a
new deslgn that met all requlrements.
mater1.ls meant that drums currently used for products such as
dyes, compounds or reagents were no longer legal.
The Subcommlttee coordlnated 1ndustry input and succeeded
hazard products and allow contlnued use of present packages.
CMA
our as well as those 1n our carrler and dlstrlbutor

Equipm-nt and Transportatlon and Dlstrlbutlon Commlttees, sponi
sored = on hazardous materlals regulatlons Hlth over
1,100 .ttendees from all concerned shipper and carrler groups.
As to future. each subcommlttee has an actlve task
group revlewlng waste dlsposal effects on our packages, 1nclud1ng
possl-le reuse and recycle.
spons-red a workshop on plastlc drum development Hlth DDT, the
on pl.st1c drum developments, and representatlves from the Plastlc
Drum the producers' assoclatlon.
jolnt approach, whlch we conslder to be a Significant breakthrough,
Hill .rovlde the forum for full partlclpatlon by all groups 1n
regul.tlons development and applicatlon.
In future. we may
have -n entlrely new class of hazardous materlals to package Since
DDT h-s already 1nd1cated they have under development regulatlons
to the proper packaglng and transportatlon of health
The Packaglng Commlttee actlvltles far exceed
to safely carry our products.
' 1nsure we meet DDT regulatlons; the transportatlon
and requlrements such as proper loadlng, braclng
and customers must be able to safely use our packages,
and the future, we must be able to return them or
the 1ndustry to meet all legal requlrements whlle malni
a lowirlsk posltlon 1n transportatlon proper cost/
And 1ntend to make known the posltlon
of -ur 1ndustry on leglslatlve and regulatory matters.
We emphaslzed today the effect of regulatlons
and leglslatlon on packaglng.
the entlre Eleld of transportatlon and dlstrlbutlon 1n
the chemlcal 1ndustry.
member companles have actlve prof
Du ’ont calls 1::
037122
the "RHYTHM" program, an acronym for Remember How You
Hazardous Materlals.
Xn I Will show a short £11m
lllustrate the contlnued need for MCA commltment and 1nvolvement
transportatlon, dlstrlbutlon and packaglng actlvltles.
037123
