exhlblt
STAFF
January 1‘73
by
Wllllam Drlver
TAX REFORM...hear1ngs before the House Ways and
mlttee llkely begln early 1n the next sesslon
As long as last June, that Commlttee's
orlty.
Means
of
Wllbur
one
Less cert.1n 15 the nature and scope of such hearlngs.
sweeplng
The is expected to 1ntroduce 1:: tax reform
proposal 1n order to take the initiative.
Comments .y
Varlous Department offlclals 1nd1cate the
tlon H111 emphaslze tax Simplification rather than substantlve
reform.
Treasury Secretary Edwln 5. Cohen stated recently
that he specter! Congress to take under conslderatlon the Asset
the tax on tax preference 1ncome.
1: 15 als- expected
Congresslonal conslderatlon of trade reform leglslatlon ahead of
and Commlttee. Mr. M1115 15 reported to have 1nd1cated
that he put trade leglslatlon before tax ls Presldent
sh-uld request 1:. We understand, however, that the
has not yet made a declslon on elther the nature of
trade be proposed by the Admlnlstratlon, or on
under leadershlp.
dutles. Secretary Shultz H111 take charge of overall
economlc pollcy.
restore Department of State to some emlnence 1n trade pollcy
matters.
No have been 1nd1cated so far 1n the Offlce of the
Speclal Representatlve.
However. the Presldent has
accepted r slgnatlons from a number of Internatlonal Economlc
Pollcy C-uncll staff memb rs, presently headed by Peter Flanlgan.
:sz

January
Page 2
9
MCA and -ther 1ntervenors wlth the Interstate Commerce Commlsslon
Reslst of base classlflcatlon Values (BCV'57 ,
the baslc system and clalmlng that a slngle
trendlng factor 15 inapproprlate,
Crltlclz-d our proposal to ralse the Value ceiling to
54n,nnn, contendlng that linings and speclal materlals
relate t- the "package" functlon of a tank car, and
legal objectlons Icc's power to prescrlbe
allowances.
Therefole, permlt
evaluatlon and response, addltlonal time to comment was
1n our behalf and that of the Amerlcan Petroleum
Instltu-e, car companles and other supporters.
Four
weeks w-re granted; reply statements are now due January 9, 1973.
and Hazard
a statl-tlcal study deslgned to collect pertlnent 1nformatlon
trlal wmrkers. Accompanled by management representatlves, NIDSH
to trade name compounds.
the Instltute's
goal 1: to develop on exposures to speclflc
for each trade name ltem reported to
them.
To thls they propose to send a letter
and a (one for each trade name product) to about
Respons- would be mandatory.
There obvlous concern that trade secret
mlght from the NIDSH flies.
Vlews the need for assurances of confldentlallty
beyond those already expressed 1n the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health Act.
1
n3.24a
'eport
1973
Page 3
THE 1n 3 recent meetlng 1n
Geneva of the Unlted Natlonsl Commlttee of Experts on the Trans
port Dangerous Goods.
Dr. c. Boyd Shaffer, Dlrector of Toxlcclogy. Amerlcan Cyanamld
taken at thls meetlng H111 result 1n publlcatlon
the al.55161catlon. packaglng and labellng of hazardous
mater1.ls 1n 1nternatlonal trade.
t
THE offered recommendatlons the
Envlr-nmental Protectlon Agency on the professlonal
deemed necessary to membershlp on Effluent
Stand.rds and Water Quallty Advlsory Commlttee.
We al-o offered to suggest candldates suiting these
tlons .
1n development of effluent guldellnes for the categorles of
for thelr 1nter1m use 1n draftlng dlscharge permlts for
who H111 recommend a basls for establlshlng Best
Control Technology Currently Avallable, Best
able Iechnology Economlcally Achlevable, and Natlonal Standards
1: 15 antlclpated
that 1nd1v1dual plants judged to be "exemplary" H111 provlde the
base for the requlred levels of technologlcal performance.

Report
Janu.ry 1973
Page 4
THE establlshed eight task
to deal wlth partlcular aspects of regulatlons under the
1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act.
117 regulatlons relatlng to State dlscharge permit
document relatlng pretreatment standards for dlscharges
A SILID WASTES MANAGEMENT CDMMITTEE...task group and other
company representatlves are revlewlng an EPA draft
that agency 1n the development of ensulng Federal regulai
ma. HERMAN s. BLDCH...Assoclate
Chemlcal Soclety's Board of
Bloch has been one of the prune catalysts for MCA/ACS
cullaboratlon 1n such EAC projects as the "Chemlstry In Actlon"
OpeniEnded Experlments, Awards and Interface Conferences.
-e served as EAC from

