Exhibit F
THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. STDVER
22,
1975
The Sec-nd Sesslon of the 94th Congress came to an end 1n the
early m-rnlng hours of October 2, 1:5 259 day duratlon maklng 1: the
second Congresslonal sesslon Since 1950. of the more than
20,000 1ntroduced, only about 450 survlved flnal enactment.
Flfteen were vetoed. and four Vetoes were overrldden.
Durlng
the Sec-nd Sesslon the Senate took 599 recorded Votes and the House
551, total of 1,349 belng a new record.
Amld frantlc flurry of lastimlnute actlvlty,
Erllls .5 significance were moved on toward enactment,
also left behlnd some unflnlshed 1n
completed, whlch are sure to reappear
one or another.
a of
but the 94th
the of
next ye.r 1n
were:
7 The T-xlc Substances Control ACt (PL 9474597, flnally became
law Elva years of dellberatlon and controversy, thus
Federal controls over the manufacture, dlstrlbutlon
and use of chemlcals.
busters and lastidltch House opposltlon; authorlzes states
of requlres large companles notlfy government
powers.
k
v
7 Tax (PL was the product of three years work
but far short of reforms promlsed by Democratlc congresslonal leaders; plans for major overhaul of taxatlon of v.5.
1n extended the 1nvestment tax credlt for another
four ye-rs, 1ncreased the minimum tax for and altered
the rules for corporate forelgn tax credlts.


expands Federal and state programs
authorlzatlons and powers for EPA, a Federal regulatory
program for hazardous wastes. a ban on open dumplng Hlthln Elva
years. .nd authorlzatlons for state and local solld waste
and research programs.
electloniyear jltters, Veto threats, 1nternal squabble:
and the pressure of an abbrevlated Congresslonal sesslon comblned to
of are llkely to surface again.
7 A to provlde strlcter regulatlon of lobbylng, whlch
amld mlnute parllamentary manueverlng as Congress ad?
journed' Common Cause 1: a strong advocate, whlle Nader groups
and the AFL7CID supported only the House Verslon;
15 appr-henslve over the prospect of heavler recordikeeplng
and rep-rtlng requlrements; dues paid to trade assoclatlons by
c
7 Clean Alr Amendments fell Vlctlm to a Senate flllbuster as the
Sesslon ended; Senator Muskle has blamed the auto 1ndustry for
kllllng the measure and may reslst efforts for qulck actlon on
set :9 effect 1n 1979; the scicalled nonfattalnment and
lssues were also controverslal and sure
to be h-tly debated 1n the next Congress.
7 Water Pollutlon leglslatlon 1n conference; chlef lssues
were of control over the natlon's wetlands. expanded
and del.y of m1d71977 water quallty deadllnes for munlclpalltles.
The Congress 1: expected to take a thorough look at the
entlre Water Pollutlon Control ACt, as a startlng
Vlable although both the House and Senate passed
prices, and thus dlscouraglng new exploratlon and productlon.
beyond early hearlng stages; 1:: chlef sponsor, Michigan
A. Hart, 15 retlrlng; the measure out
up, cre.tes a speclal commlsslon to make dlvestlture
gatlons and a speclal court to compel dlsmantllng.
CMA 037-13
I

would forced "horlzontal" dlvestlture, thus keeplng oll
companl-s out of other energy source 1nterests (m though the
cleared a Senate commlttee 1: was never taken
Senate Commlttee; one concept would requlre a Federal
of cozporatlons, annual reportlng on the makeup
of the noard of dlrectors, product llne sales and Votlng stock
Among numerous other whlch falled achleve Congresslonal
strlct over strlpimlnlng;
land u—- controls;
common plcketlng 1n the constructlon 1ndustry;
powers and investigative authorlty for the Federal
Trade I-mmlsslon.
CARTER TO TAKE OFFICE
pollster Lou Harrls called "the old Roosevelt coalltlon"
as the nackbone of campalgn. Governor Jlmmy Carter of Georgla
has presldentielect, and 15 now hard at work on the masslve task
of Admlnlstratlon.
Recent days have seen Mr. Carter
closet-d such Ford Admlnlstratlon notables as George Bush (for
and at 3:30 thls afternoon he 1: 1n personal conference Hlth Presldent
Ford :- dlscuss the transltlon of the Government.
uncert.1nty as much as by mere curloslty. After all, Jlmmy Carter has
run as an antliestabllshment candldate for nearly two years.
He has
\s Vow-d sweeplng reforms and new programs, has fought bltter campalgn
recognlzed leaders of his own party. ' However, on electlon
":Bht made a qulck transltlon from crltlc on the outslde to manager
n the
Jlmmy larter now IS the establlshment.
ﬁe
th-refore he 15 now confronted Hlth a dllemma of some dellcacy,
how to begln threat and motlvate the people and the mechanlsms
he has so recently and soundly castlgated.
He mus- 61nd and appoint
cablne- heads and offlceholders the capaclty to make the machlnery
of goV-rnment work, and thls would seem to 1nd1cate a need for
enced but at the same time he must avold the appearance
and professlonals. He needs new faces, but he also needs the
There .re Signs that a number of Carter appolntments may be
relatlvely soon, so that incoming offlclals Will have maxlmum
tune plannlng and coordlnatlon Hlth departlng offlclals of the
around the world will be carefully
Admlnl-tratlon, the 1nfluence wlelded by Varlous 1nterest groups
and and for 1nd1catlons as the polltlcal of
the hlmself.
Among most dellcate tasks confrontlng Mr. Carter, and one he
to recognlze clearly as such, 15 the establlshlng of Communica*

Hls meetlng 15 Democratlc Congresslonal leaders
last at the of Georgla Senator Herman Talmadge was
surely an effort to hold out the ollve branch and to begln bulld
for key programs.
The were reportedly broad 1n
touchlng on matters relatlng to the strength of the economy
and're-rganlzatlon of Government.
Some however. that the new Presldent may
Democr.t1c hands. They reason 1: thls way: Congresslonal leaders
of and Ford. have obvlously enjoyed the 1ndepeni
dense -nd status whlch the years of confrontatlon have produced.
They
have h.d an unportant role 1n punishing one Presldent and 1n maklng
thelr of actlon.
and programs delayed
by Watergate or stalled by Ford Vetoes are already 1n
falrly pollshed form, and are not llkely to be dropped readlly by
thelr 1n favor of Carter alternatlves.
Yet an-ther factor
will the attltude of the Whlte House 1tself, and longitlme Carter
polnt out that he adopted a tough, no compromlse attltude
toward the Georgla leglslature durlng as Governor.
CMAD37I15

Much offlclal Washlngton 15 now speculatlng on the future
from speeches and statements by the Presldentielect, and
r-spect the economy. Governor Carter appears 1n
favor .5 creatlng more jobs and provldlng stlmulus the natlonal
young from urban areas 15 another Carter 51m, and 15 conslstent
of 1nvestment credlts, strong enforcement and a
Tax r-form.
a popular toplc at the campalgn podlum, Will take conslderably
to accompllsh.
Ha
for strlct enforcement of water pollutlon control laws and
Contr-l Act.
He strlct controls over strip
m
greater emphasls on energy conservatlon, and a strengthenlng
of new nuclear power plants.
1ncre.sed rellance on domestlc coal from the deep of Appalachla
and oppose heavy development of strlpimlned coal resources 1n
the W-stern Unlted States. He opposes further expanslon of Western
lease declslons.
Hlth economlc penaltles on those Hlth less fuel efflclency.
He Federal subsldles for synthetlc fuel productlon.
ME
NEW NEW LEADERS. SAME VOTE
When -he smoke of electlon day had cleared, the new Congress
of 52 Democrats and 39 Republlcans, and the House shows a
shlft the Democrats of only two seats, the new ratlo belng 2927143

on clmser inspection, however, the changes will be both numerous
and 1n both partles; there 15 a substantlal crop of "freshmen",
there 15 talk of major commlttee reallgnment 1n the
The H-use Hill organlze 1tself 1n early December, 1n that Members
will we named to commlttees, new chalrmen Will be elected and changes
1n rules and commlttee jurlsdlctlons Will be consldered. Not
untll the 95th Congress convenes 1n January, however, will subcommlttee
Voted on.
There are 57 new House Members. 47 Democrats and 20 Republlcans.
-5 percent of those runnlng belng returned to offlce.
The
raielectlon rate held true for the 79 scicalled "Watergate
79 for raielectlon and 75 won.
There Will be a number of unportant changes 1n the
7 Commlttee (commlttee 2*year rotatlon rule)
7 The Interlor Commlttee (jurisdiction 1ncludes energy matters,
7 Marlne and Fisherles (merchant marlne matters.
7 Po-t Offlce Commlttee (the postal
7 works and Transportatlon Commlttee (water pollutlon
most transportatlon matters)
debaue7
development worthy of mentlon 15 the fact that there are
Vacancles to be filled on the House Ways and Means Commlttee
taxatlon and trade leglslatlon are wrltten.
CMA
I

The .enate Will also undergo some 1nterest1ng changes.
dldn't fare as well as thelr House colleagues only 15 of the 25
The .4 percent raielectlon rate for
who replace Vice Presldentielect Mondale.
Ten are Democrats and
commlttee chalrmen were defeated: Hartke (Veterans Affair57:
(Aeronautlcs and Spacey, and McGee (Post Offlce and
Will be conslderable change 1n the membershlps of several
Commlttees. 1nclud1ng Commerce, where there are 7 Vacancles
filled. Flnance 14 and Judlclary 15
Hll‘ brlng a Significant shlft 1n commlttee jurlsdlctlons and responi
Silllltles. A reorganlzatlon proposal 1n the form of a Senate
Re-olutlon has been drafted by the Commlttee on Commlttees headed by
Adlal E. Stevenson. Jr. and could be taken up early
1n 1977. The resolutlon presents a number of alternatlves for

