Exhlblt E
REPORT TO THE BOARD
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
DENNIS P. BRIDGE. CHAIRMAN
WASTES MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
APRIL 13, 1975
The prlmary Wastes Management Commlttee concern
1: for leglslatlve proposals for scicalled "Hazardous Waste
Materlals".
For the last several years the reports have
1nd1cated leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the prevlous year and the
expectatlon of restrlctlve leglslatlon the followlng year. Al,
though I am pleased to say that these forebodlngs have not come
to pass, I qulckly note that the current sltuatlon 15 qulte
durlng thls elect'lon year.
The flrst Significant act deallng
Hlth solld waste was passed 1n 1955 and the second leglslatlve
actlon followed 1n 197D.
Durlng 1975 there was leglslatlve
actlvlty 1n thls area and, assumlng Elva years to be a reasonable
gestatlon perlod, 1975 could be the year.
Th1: leglslatlon Will
not be as far reachlng as that proposed for toxlc substances,
but 1: Hill slgnlflcantly 1mpact chemlcal process 1ndustry
operatlons.
Since the last report to the Board, there have been
nine major leglslatlve proposals, elther actual or worklng
"drafts, concernlng solld waste.
of these the Senate Publlc Works
Commlttee 3111 s. 2150 sponsored by Senator Jennlngs Randolph
and the House Interstate and Forelgn Commerce Commlttee, Sub?
commlttee on Transportatlon and Commerce worklng draft as sponsored
by Congressman Rooney, are the two most llkely candldates for
enactment.
The Admlnlstratlon has not sponsored a but has
1nd1cated general support of s. 2150. We expect that each
proposal will reach 1:: respectlve floor 1n May.
Although some undeslrable provlslons. Senator Randolph's
15 certalnly the more acceptable of the two proposals.
Both
documents contaln "Hazardous Waste" sectlons, but 5. 2150 1: much
less compllcated and 1: does not requlre federal approval for all
permlts for waste transport, treatment and storage, but rather
concentrates on state 1mplementatlon of a permlt system Similar
to current alr and water requlrements.
The Rooney proposal
requlres at both levels.
In addltlon 1: addresses several
035917

1
1
1
areas not 1ncluded 1n 5. 2150 such as product and Contalner control
as a means of source waste reductlon and tax 1ncent1ves for recycllng. We belleve that the Rooney worklng draft will be modlfled
to resemble the Senate Publlc Works proposal.
Whatever the flnal form of the leglslatlon, MCA Hill strongly
espouse the concept of requlrements for waste dlsposal
rather than the predetermlnatlon or specification approach currently
belng fostered. Waste should be deemed hazardous only after 1::
toxlclty, quantlty and dlsposal slte have been carefully consldered.
of a waste dlsposal method wlthout investigating
each of these parameters 15 counterproductlve because thls restrlcts
development of new technology and precludes the use of Vlable
alternatlves approprlate to speclflc geographlcal areas or to
avaliable equlpment. MCA Hill contend that the authorlty over
the areas of packaglng, transportatlon and storage of waste
materlals contlnue to be Vested 1n the v.5. Department of Trans*
portatlon.
Should adoptlon of a permlt system be unavoldable,
He Will advocate that the dlsposal slte rather than the generator
be the and that state of the permit
system under federal guldellnes 1: preferred over threat federal
1nterventlon.
Flnally, provlde for reasonable regulatory
requlrements from both a technlcal and economlc Viewpoint, He
Will strlve for sufflclent time constralnts and flexlblllty 1n
any leglslatlon to accommodate the dearth of technology and dlsposal cost data currently avaliable to us.
Many of the states, most notably Texas and Callfornla, have
, passed solld waste management leglslatlon deallng hazardous
wastes.
Because thls leglslatlon has preceded federal hazardous
waste dlsposal actlvlty, 1: 15 qulte llkely that the EPA may
adopt those concepts fostered by these states whlch have proven
to be most workable.
monltors "Bellwether" states for
concepts whlch mlght be 1ncozporated 1nto federal regulatlons.
In addltlon liaison 15 belng malntalned Hlth the Natlonal Solid
Waste Management Assoclatlon (NSWMA7 monltor 1:5 efforts to
develop a leglslatlve gulde for use by each state.
A1
1
leglslatlve actlvlty 15 dlrected almost solely to
dlsposal of hazardous wastes.
Chemlcal packaglng has not been
ralsed as an lssue to date.
Should thls occur. will ask the
Chemlcal Packaglng Commlttee's asslstance on thls matter whlch
15 of Vital 1mportance to the CPI from a marketlng as well as
dlsposal Viewpoint.
:1
035919
A secondary but Very unportant concern 1: meanlngful
liaison Hlth the EPA.
Solid waste control 15 unlque among envlroni
mental concerns because the EPA has had a relatlvely long lead
time to perform research and gather data establlsh regulatlons
on a more sclentlflc basls whlle 5:111 complylng the strlngent
time frame expected 1n the enabllng leglslatlon,
feels 1: 1mportant, especlally 1n Vlew of EPA'S 1ntent,
to present MCA posltlons at every opportunlty.
Durlng the past
year there have been three sallent examples of work Hlth EPA:
First, durlng our May 20721, 1975 meetlng, EPA'S Offlce
of Solid Waste Management Programs 105nm?) representatlves
made a presentatlon on an EPA 55.4 mllllon landflll project
belng conducted the state of Mlnnesota.
Th1: project
15 1ntended determlne the effectlveness of modern land?
5111 deslgn and operatlonal technlques.
Several member
companles are followlng thls work closely.
Second, on
December 4, 1975, at one of four EPA publlc meetlngs on
hazardous waste, the Chalrman of presented comprehenslve
testlmony on behalf of MCA 1n response to a formal EPA
request for such 1nformatlon.
The EPA 15 now developlng
synopses of the Varlous comments as a basls for 1:: posltlon
on leglslatlon and on subsequent regulatlons.
Flnally, a
meetlng was held Hlth personnel from the EPA'S and
Hazardous Waste Research Dlvlslon, Munlclpal Envlronmental
Research Laboratory 1n Clnclnnatl, 1n conjunctlon Hlth
a regular meetlng.
members have repeatedly
expressed a deslre to 1nvest1gate the posslbllltles of
contractlng research work to £111 exlstlng data gaps 1n the
area of landflll dlsposal of potentlally hazardous wastes.
To avold dupllcatlon 1: 15 unportant that we ascertaln the
scope of EPA research actlvltles. The EPA presentatlon and
suggestlons were well recelved and Very beneflclal 1n
guiding us toward an approprlate research actlvlty, to be
identified by our Technlcal Subcommlttee.
A compendlum of 15 successful case hlstorles of waste
recycllng or resldua dlsposal 15 developed by the Technlcal
Th1: document will provlde posltlve CPI 1nput
Varlous leglslatlve and regulatory proposals respect to the
Significant amount of current work Within 1ndustry on dlsposal of
potentlally hazardous wastes.
A jolnt subcommlttEE, composed of representatlves of the
and Water Resources CommlttEE, was formed 1n 1974 to develop
guldellnes for deepiwell dlsposal.
Th1: document has just been
publlshed.
035919
concept of land use regulatlon contlnues dlsturb
members and representatlves of the other envlronmental
commlttees.
Land use leglslatlon could be the most 1n51dlous
tool avaliable to those who would punltlvely regulate the CPI.
Forms of land use regulatlon are currently embodled 1n federal
alr, water and coastal zone management leglslatlon, and several
land use proposals have been made relatlve solld waste d15*
posal. As a result of the total envlronmer.tal 1mpllcatlons of
thls lssue the Task Group on Land Use, conslstlng of two repre*
sentatlves from each of the three envlronmental commlttees. was
establlshed at the request.
The group 15 to revlew the
questlon of land use Hlth respect to posslble unpllcatlons on
CPI operatlons and to make approprlate recommendatlons to the
MCA Board for actlon.
Durlng 1:5 organlzatlonal meetlng the
Group concluded that, prior to recommendatlons for
MCA Board actlon, there 15 a deflnlte need to ascertaln current
CPI status respect to all exlstlng federal and reglonal
land use leglslatlon.
Because of the legal nature of the actlvlty,
MCA staff through the Joint Subcommlttee on Envlronmental Law
or other legal source has been formally requested to
thls 1nformatlon for the Task Group by July 1, 1975.
Task Group will then develop 1:: recommendatlons MCA
questlon of JSEL contlnuatlon, under revlew by the
At
on solld waste leglslatlon and the land use issue,
1n order :9
To
If we are to effectlvely 1nfluence and combat unacceptable leglsi
reports. As per recommendatlons of the Ad Hoc Commlttee
on Envlronmental Affairs, two meetlngs have been held between
admlnlstratlve procedures and methods by whlch MCA can act
1n 3 more unified and tlmely fashlon.
A5 a result of these
One of these provldes for Government Relatlons
has been asslgned to work 1n liaison capaclty.

1n the conslstent and competent efforts of our
To that a contlnulng dlalogue 15 malntalned among
all facets of MCA envlronmental affalrs, I recommend that a
of admlnlstratlon procedures and resolutlon of lssues
In 15 concerned the ultlmate dlsposal
of hazardous wastes.
of the areas of envlroni
for a total envlronmental control approach. We may see 51g,
But what has the CPI really accompllshed 15 these successes are ~
and economlcally feaslble manner? We belleve that, 15 the legal,
to through MCA ausplces can be comblned 1nto tlmely actlon,
we not be the weak llnk 1n the chaln of total envlronmental
035921
