These 1nd1v1duals today are more willing and capable of
representlng companles and our 1ndustry than ever before.
It's also clear to the commlttee that many companles are now
placlng value on communlcatlons skllls when senlor
management selects the people to serve as your plant managers.
on the medla rel.tlons front 1n 1996, the commlttee felt that we
generally recelV-d falr coverage. Our relatlonshlps Hlth
envlronmental for many major medla were further
7 regard, and we had another year to Increase our 1ndustry's
credlblllty Hlth these reporters. In addltlon, all of our sklns
got a llttle trucker 1n 1995 as the 1ndustry learned anew
that worklng the medla 15 a tough, noinonsense, and sometlme
frustratlng part of all of our Jobs. A5 a result, our collectlve
tolerance level the medla 15 even hlgher than 1: was. We
have learned no one story or eplsode 15 crltlcal and
press.
I trunk a few are worth comment.
Accordlng to one prestlglous natlonal survey, the publlc's Vlew
of our Industry measurably. Our approval ratlng 1n thls
survey Increased by about 40 percent durlng 1995. However,
falrness me to polnt out that we started the year dead
last among 15 a ratlng so low that any
seem large by comparlson. Th1: unprovement,
though sllght, m-ved us from 15th place to about 12th or 13th on
039799
the 1ndustry 115-. We're above the alcohol and nuclear power
1ndustr1es and close to the electrlc utility 1ndustry. Now
our standlng doe-n't begln to compare the ratlngs of the
topirated 1ndustry or the food and retalllng 1ndustr1es.
But we moved up . notch or two and our ranklng 15 the hlghest
1t's been Since That has to quallfy as good news.
Th1: survey two other ltems of speclal 1nterest. First,
1n 3 speclal que-tlonnalre, the plastlcs Industry recelved an
approval ratlng would place 1: at about 5th place on the
lSilndustry Since many of the companles here today have
some 1nterest 1n plastlcs, thls approval ratlng should be
encouraglng.
publlc's Improved notlceably. In 1992 the all guys
were 1n last By the fourth quarter of 1995 011 had moved
all the way up (n about the of the 15 1ndustr1es. So
major unprovemen- 15 posslble 15 we persevere.
publlc's opinion about us stayed the same or 1mproved only
sllghtly. We to be reboundlng slowly from last year's
Yet we should confuse these sllght unprovements Hlth any
of the publlc's concern about the envlronment and our
1ndustry.
place concerns Very high among thelr prlorltles,
even to the of preferrlng the envlronment over jobs or
hlgher prices wh-n faced Hlth a cholce 1n the surveys.
The publlc feels that the envlronment 15 1mprov1ng, but feels
The publlc to rank the dlsposal of hazardous wastes as
1:: number one concern and alts: the chemlcal
1ndustry as the country's prlmary source of air and
water pollutlon.
Faced Hlth these condltlons. the communlcatlons commlttee's 1997
objectlves our enthuslasm to support CHA'S advocacy
efforts and the upportunlty parlay these efforts, where
Headlng our 115: for 1997 Is the followup on our CAER
communlcatlon of 1935. If there 15 3 member
plant that yet conducted a CAER communlcatlons actlvlty,
we want to 61nd and get 1: on track Hlth the rest of the
1ndustry.
039790
CARR has been leadershlp effort for the chemlcal 1ndustry
durlng thls decawe and we must not let 1: Hither elther 1n an
operatlng or a cnmmunlcatlons sense. The commlttee's greatest
fear 1: that our plant people will become complacent about CAER
Another of the m-ny Values of CAER 15 that 1: gives us the
opportunlty to from strength 1n conductlng our future
the commlttee staff are bulldlng on CAER'S success 1n
tackllng the
Superfund.
In the air area, a survey of the commlttee found that most
of the companles 1ntend to treat thelr alr toxlcs communlcatlons
as an extenslon .5 the CARR program.
some communlcatl-ns barrlers that are qulte dlfferent from our
CARR effort.
wldely dlfferlng product slates. So whlle one plant can boast to
the local medla .bout 1:: relatlvely clean products and lack of
toxlc alr emlssl-ns, a nelghborlng plant manager may have a devll
emlsslons of hlghlyitoxlc products. Remember too that most
of these same pl-nts worked closely together 1n 1ntroduc1ng the
' CARR program t- the communlty. The unified local approach that
worked so well the CAER program also could suffer when
dlfferent plants are at dlfferent stages of unplementlng thelr
alr toxlcs progr.ms.
Another concern that many plant managers understandably are
reluctant to be .5 aggresslve 1n promotlng the air toxlcs lssue
as they Here The reason 15 clear: Admlttlng
chronlc alr of toxlc chemlcals 15 not a pleasant duty.
And 1n some managers are not 1n 3 posltlon to comment about
In overcomlng th-se concerns, the communlcatlons commlttee,
staff, and your local managers will carry out a comprehenslve and
alr toxlcs leatlons earller thls month 1n
Houston. 1: was attended. Includlng many plant managers,
cautlous 1n our .pproach to thls communlcatlons program, and I
hope you agree our thlnklng.
039791
helplng local pl.nt people cope the Tltle III provlslon of
Superfund. Thes- provlslons Hill requlre your plants to make
more avaliable about your products and processes than
ever before. 1: all be avaliable at once and 1: Will be
1nformatlon out of context. The commlttee has formed a
communlcatlons 1n thls area.
Our flnal major -bject1ve 1n 1997 15 to contlnue to 55515: the
state chemlcal 1n unprovlng thelr communlcatlons
capabllltles. W-‘Ve already have made 1mportant progress 1n
more states 1n future.
Th1: actlvlty becomes more unportant when you reallze
help and we contlnue thls partnershlp.
followlng up on CARR communlcatlons, extendlng our communlcatlons
actlvltles c-Ver the air toxlcs and Tltle III iSSuES, and
worklng Hlth th- CICs. These objectlves are 1n addltlon, of
course, to our work other commlttees Hlthln CMA
provlde communl-atlons counsel and hands*on help as requlred.
The commlttee f-els that these goals are achlevable Hlth current
manpower and current resources.
I would llke to close a comment that doesn't fall readlly
1nto our normal communlcatlons toplcs.
The commlttee f-els that we should be wary of the recent attacks
on the "corpocracy" of major v.5. companles. Whlle
1t's too early .9 call thls a major trend, there are a lot of
people cut Includlng some 1n the current admlnlstratlon,
who may well be taklng shots at v.5.
Executlves be blamed for everythlng from worklng too hard
organlzatlons sacrlflclng the bluedzollar worker's future for
Along these lln-s, GM may be the flrst company to enter thls
quagmlre. That 50750 the Perot buyout,
Capabilities of those managlng the glant auto company.
039792
GM may be the flrst, we shouldn't be fooled 1nto thlnklng
the publlc's will stop there. Th1: 15 a trend we'll
all have Very closely.
In concluslon. saw the chemlcal 1ndustry's reputatlon
the publlc 1mprmve for the flrst time 1n several years. Th1:
uptlck dld not about by accldent. 1: occurred because we
operated moved aggresslvely to meet the publlc's
legltlmate conc-rns about our operatlons, and took the tune to
tell people wha- we were dolng.
Through CARR other programs we showed a lot of confldence 1n
the Amerlcan last year. Maybe they're beglnnlng to return
that I hope so.
We look forward to earnlng your contlnued support throughout
1997. I Will be pleased to try to answer any questlons you mlght
have about the commlttee and our 1997 plans.

039793
m
annum, report
or
THE PATENT AND COMMITTEE
JANUARY 27,
EXECUTIVE
pollcles at horn and abroad. The PATC has also advocated CMA posltlons
dlrectly f-relgn authorltles, as approprlate, and other domestlc
Durlng the past year, through the PATC, has obtalned 1ncreased
Visibility and 1n the 1ndustrlal property rlghts area.
negotlatlons.
posltlons federal laboratory utlllzatlon leglslatlon, government
patent pollcy, -nd amendments to Sectlon 337 of the Tarlff Act of 1930, as
amended.
In addltlon to .dvocacy efforts on leglslatlon, the Commlttee
prepared comments for submlsslon by on a number of regulatory
and 1nternatlon-l lssues.
The Comnlttee partlclpated 1n 3 number of the Admlnlstratlon's
1nvest1gatlons .nd actlvltles on the 1nternatlonal
Trade Commlttee on the approprlate role of thls subject 1n the new Round of
Multllateral Tr.de Negotlatlons.
In all these the Commlttee has
stressed the of strengthened patent protectlon to v.5.
technologlcal contlnued recovery, and productlvlty.
The PATC also played an 1mportant communlcatlons role 1n 1995 1n
keeplng CMA'S m-mber companles apprlsed of developments on 1ndustrlal
property rlghts lssues. The Commlttee communlcated the Board of
Dlrectors and m-mber companles on a number of patent lssues through
mechanlsms such as Actlon Advlsorles. other reports, and newsletters.
By playlng thls colmnunlcatlons role. the Commlttee not only dlssemlnated
1nformatlon to companles, but also became on the posltlons
of the members -n patent lssues. The Commlttee, 1n turn, was then better
Flnally, 1: 15 to note that the Conmlttee has carrled out
technlcal or comnents were prepared and advocacy actlvltles
carrled out by members, other deslgnated CMA member company
representatlves, and CMA staff. We also do not antlelpate any major

039794
N
The Envlronmental Management Conmlttee's (Ema) Ad Hoc Task Group on
Waste Mlnlmlzatlon presented a status report descrlblng the waste
mlnlmlzatlon lssue's 1mportance and a posslble CMA program at the
November Board of Dlrector's meetlng. The purpose of thls revlew 15
obtaln appr-Val of a recommended CMA program.
BACKGROUND
(RCRA7 requlre companles to establlsh Voluntary waste mlnlmlzatlon
programs and c-rtlfy actlons. Several states have 1n place or are
mlnlmlzatlon enforts are also scrutlnlzed when for
waste facllltl-s are requested. Alternatlves for stronger federal
actlon are 1n recent reports to Congress by the Offlce of
Technology Ass-ssment and EPA. Applying greater pressure to force
groups. Th1: g-al 15 reflected 1n Varlous thrusts toward achlevlng
zero dlscharge and opposltlon to new treatment and dlsposal
facilities.
mlnlmlzatlon Will be evaluated by Congress 1n hearlngs
beglnnlng 1n 1-37. If 1ndustry cannot demonstrate sufflclent
adopt extreme .mendments as part of RCRA'S reauthorlzatlon whlch 1:
Scheduled 1n 1-39. The amendments could 1nclude such undeslrable
process restrl-tlons, and outslde audlts.
Companles are .lready confronted Hlth 1ncreaslng costs of waste
dlsposal as expands the scope of wastes regulated as hazardous
requlrements. .nd further tlghtens controls over waste management
practlces. companles have slgnlflcantly reduced thelr waste.
At thls time, there 15 no rellable natlonal data to
demonstrate progress, and F.?A's programs are under
attack.
III.
TIMING
Waste mlnlmlzallon 15 llkely to be an lssue 1n RCRA hearlngs and
In addltlon. E.A 15 commltted unprove waste
mlnlmlzatlon and data bases 1n 1937, whlch 1: must do to
reduce Congres-lonal overslght pressures. CMA needs to start 1::
program early 1997 to provlde asslstance to EPA and to develop an
reasonable. the lssue 15 not at a Crisis stage, by
establlshlng a program and data base early, Will be 1n the best
039795

WASTE MINIMIZATIDN
oh 1 actlve 7 and asslse member companles 1n reduclng wastes
at the sourCE, 1ncreaslng recycle, and reduclng dlsposal rlsks.
0
o
avoiding leglslatlon that mandates waste reductlon;
o
limiting costs and future cleanup llablllty; and
o
Proposed CMA P-sltlon on Waste Mlnlmlzatlon
member have programs 1n place that have resulted 1n
achleve progress, 1nd1v1dual companles are encouraged to
opportunltles exlst 1n thelr operatlons. will and
Actlvltles
0
An 1ndustry pr-gram to promote and 55515: member companles 1n
and carrylng out waste mlnlmlzatlon programs (1.e.,
workshops, res-urce manuals, newsletter, and swards
0
Leglslatlve regulatory advocacy support to address waste
mlnlmlzatlon before Congress and EPA.
0
Measurement of waste mlnlmlzatlon progress 1n order to document
progress deflnltlons of key terms, deflnltlon of
measurement evaluatlon of exlstlng data systems and
o
Communlcatlons of member company and 1ndustry waste
development of a strategy to effectlvely communlcate
a contlnulng b.5157.
Further pr-grammatlc actlon, 1.e., establlshlng percentage
reductlon slmllar CMA'S snsrgy conservatlon program or
enactment of elr toxlcs type control program Hlth detalled
luvplementatlo steps, may ha consldered and recommended 1n the
future to the Comlttee and Board of Dlrectors on an as
needed basls.
039795


0
To support th- four actlvltles noted above, a portlon of a
professlonal and some support staff time Will be
necessary. A for the necessary personnel 1: belng
0
Dutslde Purch.sed Servlces Impact
The EMC has r-comended $ADK fundlng for outslde purchased
servlces as p.rt of thelr FT 97/99 budget proposals.
0
Member Resources Impact
Approxlmately 10 15 member company Volunteers will be needed
to carry thls effort forward through deslgn and unplementatlon.

The EMC approval of CMA unplementlng a new waste
mlnlmlzatlon
v11.
ACTION

039797
0
CONCEPTS TOR LEGKSTATIDN
1. Background
C1.t1.2an5 publlc offlclals groundwater contamlnatlon as a
issue almed a. commerclal and 1ndustrlal sources.
Several feder.l groundwater 1ntroduced 1n the 94th Congress,
will serve to focus future groundwater debates. Senator Purenberger
federal early 1n tha 100th Congress. Slmllar Will
be 1ntroduced 1n the House. Groundwater leglslatlon could unposa product
usa (e.g., pestlcldes, detergents, solvents), requlre
addltlonal or remedlatlon actlvltles, and 1ntroduce onerous
Many states h.ve or are enactlng groundwater leglslatlon and are
unplementlng management programs. State efforts may establlsh
tha need for usa restrlctlons, land usa plannlng declslons, new
Vlctlm compen-atlon concerns, and 51te*speclflc regulatory frameworks
whlch could in tlma/cost consumlng.
establlsh CMA federal leglslatlve concepts and a leglslatlve
strategy for 1n tha federal groundwater debate. these
concepts, will strlve 1nfluence tha Congresslonal groundwater
debate so any leglslatlon enacted resembles CMA'S posltlon as closely
as posslble. support thls effort, 15 prepared ro partlclpate
actlvaly 1n federal groundwater debate durlng the 100th Congress.
Early 1n tha debate will hal'p CMA focus the emerglng
dlscusslons will 1dentlfy CMA as an 1nvolved knowledgeable party.
II. Slmary of CMA'S Concepts for Federal Groundwater Leglslatlon
reslde the states. Each state should develop and Implement a
comprehenslve groundwater management program. A state groundwater
management pr-gram should address the followlng components: 117 character*
standards; protsctlon; 147 remedlatlon; 157 monltorlng; and 157
1nterstate gr-undweter 1mpacts.
these tasks. asslstance cen 1nclude: (17 federal fundlng to 35515:
127 technlcal Informatlon and guldance; and 137 sclentlflcallyibased
crlterla and for states' use 1n maklng groundwater protectlon
and remedlatl-n declslons. Howsver. ths federal 1nvolvement should not
1nclude the to make declslons for the stats about the most
approprlate w.y to 1mplement the components of the state program.
039799
2
III. TIjm
Groundwater in addraased as a kay lssue 1n tha 100th Congress.
To ensure CMA has an actlve Volce 1n the debatE, federal
advocacy need to be approved early 1n 1937.
IV. Recoenend.t lon
Tha EMC has r-Vlewed and approved these concepts for federal
groundwater l-glslatlon. The EMC recommends approval of the concepts
paper.
Approve CMA'S concepts for federal groundwater leglslatlon.

039799
for Groundwater Leglslatlon
State Groundw.ter Management Prograa
Each stats sh-uld davalop a groundwater management program. Developman
and 1mplement.tlon of the program would be the responslblllty of the
state; but asslstance should be avaliable to help the state
perform these tasks. Fallure by the state to develop a program would
only lead to . loss of any further federal asslstance for program
A program to characterlze state groundwater resources to the
extent necessary for state plannlng.
Use of groundwater objectlves and standards.
A prograa to protect state groundwater resources from
sources of c-ntamlnatlon.
A process to address groundwater remedlatlon needs.
A monltorlng program.
A process to address 1nterstate groundwater Impacts.
The are detalled descrlptlons of each of these components.
Groundwater Iharacterlzatlon
The state establlsh a program to characterlze 1:5
groundwater to the extent necessary for the state
plannlng.
The program rely on exlstlng data where that 15
avaliable feaslble.
The state sh-uld consult Hlth the Unlted States Geologlcal
Survey and the Unlted States Envlronmental
Protectlon for guldance on the
characterlza-lon program.
portlons of groundwater resource, 15 1: determlnes chat
such actlon not necessary at that tune.
Based upon 1.: characterlzatlon program, the state could
dlvlde 1:5 1nto Varlous categorles, whlch may
requlre management approaches.
Groundwater and Standards
The stats mu-t establlsh approprlate groundwater objectlves.
Dbjectlves 1nd1v1dual aqulfers or portlons of
aqulfers.
The oust 1dentlfy the current and reasonably
antlclpated uses of the groundwater.
that Hill prmtect avallablllty of the groundwater for
those uses. Standards must be set
For drlnklng water supply, the state must use
maxlmum levels (MCL'57 adopted by EPA under the
Safe Water Act, whenever a substance has an MCL.
The state use crlterla developed by EPA to sac
numarleal us. standards. would requlre a new work
effort, development, at EPA.)
The state davalop
resources frum sources
groundwater
the goal of
a program to protect 1:5 groundwater
Tn developlnw the
program. the state should conslder
releases to
In developlnw 1:5 protectlon program, the state must
1dentlfy and evaluate exlstlng and potentlal sources of
The program 1nclude, as approprlate, source controls,
The program be coordlnated exlstlng source control
and must be exlstlng federal provlslons
concernlng hazardous waste treatment or dlsposal
capaclty.
The program address all Significant sources of
Source contr-ls could apply unlformly statewlde or could
Source contr-l requlrements should make approprlate
dlstlnctlons among new and old sources, dlfferent types of
sources, speclflc unlque sources.
Protectlon must take 1nto account appllcable
groundwater -bject1ves and standards. Some minimum
protectlon should be developed for all areas of the
state.
039901
(e.g., Voluntary controls, regulatlons,
Tha program 1nclude adequate authorlty for the state to
Groundwater
remedlatlon needs.
When needed, remedlal measures should be formulated on a
groundwater objectlves/standards.
appllcable and federal laws, 1nclud1ng state tort
Significant remedlal concerns.
The remedla-lon process must 1nclude adequate authorlty for
the state enforce remedlal requlrements.
Monltorlng 'rograms
The program must be formulated to serve three purposes;
groundwater objectlves and standards.
b. Provlde on groundwater trends and,
c. Provlde on sources of contamlnatlon as
necessary.
The program must 1nclude measures to ensure that data
gathered sclentlflcally Valld.
The state consult Hlth the Unlted States Geologlcal
Survey and for guldance on developlng the monltorlng
program.
The state c-uld establlsh a data management system that
all relevant monltorlng data. The data
management should 1nclude 1nformatlon so the user
can the quallty control and quallty assurance of
039902

Interstate
1nterstate and to develop 1nterstate agreements,
where
039903
Concepts Federal Groundwater leglslatlon
Federal 1n Groundwater Management
Federal would be avaliable to 35515: the states 1n
programs.
If a state a groundwater management program to EPA
that all of the requlred components, EPA must accept the
program and provlde fundlng to 55515: 1n unplementatlon.
EPA may not judge the substantlve adequacy of the state program
as long as state program 1ncludes all of the requlred
components -nd the state certlfles that thelr program compiles
the st.tutory requlrements.
EPA and must 55515: the states by and provldlng
groundwater quallty Criteria, technlcal and
guldance on groundwater lssues.

039904
p
TRADE LAW IMPORTS THREATENING
Current lav authorlzes the Presldent to restrlct 1mports of
malntalned hy the General Servlces Admlnlstratlon. Addltlons the
115: are h.ndled by the Department of Commerce through a petition
process. A rullng on the petition must occur Within one year of 1:5
filing.
Presldent, .u: no deadllnes currently exlst for Presldentlal actlons.
consldered be chemlcals are elther ores or chemlcal element
products. there 15 good reason to belleve chat, as
petrocheml-al 1ndustr1es contlnue to develop 1n researchirlch areas of
the world v.5. plant closures, addltlonal chemlcal products
such as pe-rochemlcals would be added to the 115:.
Congress. Ihe Internatlonal Trade Commlttee has already proposed a
number of to the Board whlch address dlfferent facets of
exlstlng law whlch will be able to address Either dlrectly or
through co.lltlons durlng the upcomlng Congresslonal dellberatlons.
PDSITIIN:
supporls the strengthenlng of Sectlon 232 of the Trade
Expanslon of 1952 and recommends the followlng changes to achleve
thls 31m.
0 Shorten time perlod allotted for the Secretary of Commerce
to act on 232 petitions.
o Shorten time for exlstlng mandatory deadllnes, or
deadllnes none exlst, by whlch both the Secretary of
Commerce the Presldent must act on Sectlon 232
0 Requlre dlsclosure of flnal actlons on petltlons.
ACTION REQUESTED
Approval attached posltlon.


LAW IMPORTS THREATENING NATIONAL

Current
Sectlon of the Trade Expanslon Act of 1952 authorlzes the
Presldent restrlct unports of products whlch threaten natlonal
securlty. lav requlres the Secretary of Commerce to begln an
1mports of a produet upon the request of another government
agency or an 1nterested party, or his own Volltlon.
securlty, must advlse the Presldent Hlthln one year of the
1n1tlatlon of the 1nvest1gatlon. However, the Presldent 15 not
obllged to answer thls petition Within a speclflc perlod.
Sampllng Proposals Made for Leglslatlve Changes
Several pr-posals have been made to establlsh deadllnes for
Presldent1.l actlon, such as a requlrement that the Presldent act
Within one year after recelvlng the Secretary's advlce. Another
would establlsh a Bniday deadllne. Some would 1m7
USTR and requlre the USTR to act Hlthln the en days after
recelvlng Secretary's recommendatlons.
Unlted St.tes 1n tunes of natlonal emergency. The Federal
Governmen- should ensure that import competltlon does not hlnder
plies of Ihese essentlal products.
Leglslatl-n that would
provlde deadllnes will force the Admlnlstratlon to focus on
questlons of natlonal securlty and unports 1n 3 tlmely manner.
seems Since the 15 part of the Admlnlstratlon
and as a matter would not act wlthout the Presldent's

fall 1nto the category of essentlal natlonal securlty.
The lssue as to what extent the natlonal securlty and forelgn
lover and the questlon of what natlonal securlty costs
should be borne by the taxpayers to protect;agalnst supply
n ed to be addressed.

Expanslon Act of 1952 and recommends the followlng changes to
sector petitions to 1n1tlate a Sectlon 232
Within an days a declslon Bust be Bade by the Secretary
whether t- proceed the 1nvest1gatlon or
Secretary of CoBaerce and the Presldent Bust act on
whlch recommendatlons to the Presldent. The
recommend-tlons of the Secretary of Commerce to the
Presldent Bust be made no later than a months after an
upon the Within an days and make publlc


0
Amerlcan Standard for Precautlonary
labellng .5 Hazardous Industrlal Chemlcals
(ANSI 2129.1719977
llnes the chemlcal 1ndustry. In 1975, CMA became the
Natlonal Standard for Precautlonary Labellng of Hazardous
Industr1.l Chemlcals. The guldellnes then became a Voluntary
standard under the ausplces of the Amerlcan Natlonal
Instltute
ANSI 212-.1 was publlshed 1n 197a and 1932, and has been
extenslV-ly revlsed by the Health and Safety Commlttee's
Labellng Task Group for a 1997 printing. After presentatlon to
the ANSI consensus process by whlch CMA member companles,
1nterest-d 1ndustry groups, labor government agencles,
consumer coalltlons and professlonal socletles revlew and Vote on
the Flnal submlsslon to the ANSI Board of Revlew 15
for m1d71987.
part1cul.rly relevant to the chemlcal 1ndustry for the followlng
reasons:
0
The OSHA Hazard Cosstunlcatlon Standard requlres labellng
o
In 1936, OSHA Eleld 1nspectors lssued altatlons to CMA member
for a Varlety of labellng Violations, 1nclud1ng the
lack of organ/system hazard Harnlngs on labels.
0
The nature of the OSHA Hazard
llnes 1n ANSI 2129.1 provlde both guldance and flexlblllty
companles.
o
A trend toward 1ndustry llablllty for alleged
occupatl-nal lllnesses has put the 1ndustry at rlsk for
{allure Eulflll the "duty to warn."
ISSUES IN ANSI 2129.171997;
o
In of the regulatory and liability lssues llsted
of delayed (chronlc) hazards and target organ/
system
o
Guldanc- for 1mmedlate (acute7 hazards has been revlsed.

0
As ouch 53 posslble" all guldellnes 1n the standard have been
compare- and adjusted for compllance Hlth hey regulatory
statute', e.g., the DSKA Hazard Comnunlcatlon Standard, TSCA,
[CT labellng requlrements, etc.
PLANS;
ACTION
0
of the avallablllty of the standard 1n trade
newsletters, and other approprlate forums.
0
groups, and government offlclals 1n 199771999.

Endorse the submlsslon of the proposed revlsed
standard (ANSI for consensus
revlew. followed by Amerlcan Natlonal Standards


pnouvcmzs ...mm
SALES
152.5
227.5
325.0
125.0
107.5
150.5
215.0
92.0
55.0
77.0
110.0
42.0
40.0
50.0
90.0
30.0

27.5
39.5
55.0
20.0

17.5
24.5
35.0
14.0
To
13.0
3.25
UNDER
~

SITES REVENUE soURcEs
94/95
95/95
95/97
97/99
99/99
99/9.

DTHE'
TDTAI
s
HIGH INTEREST. GUARANTEED MINIMUM RETURN.
TAX ADVANTAGEs, AND A PAYROLL SAVINGS
means
of
BE resolved that the Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon
TH'REFDRE:

1n whlch
are 1nd1v1dually asked to enroll 1n
T-E PROGRAM. on TO INCREASE THEIR ALLDTMENTS IF CURRENTLY

