knowledg- of productlon and use patterns, toxlcologlc propel”
tles. an- the presence of arsenlc In the envlronment.
"he carclnogenlc effects of arsenlc Hlth Dr. HardlngBarlow.

a
Butylate- Hydroxytoluene
The joln- FAD/WHD Expert Commlttee on Food Addltlves re*
BET, pen-lng recelpt of addltlonal testlng data.
EPA and -he chlorobenzenes producers have agreed on a
Industry test program. The Toxlcology Research Group
Foundatl-n perform the cell assays and EPA Is In
agreemen- thls recommendatlon. Requests for proposals to
conduct . twoigeneratlon reproductlon study on monochloroi
benzene sent to Elva contract laboratorles.
Ethylene (Ems)
The Brotherhood of Teamsters urged In a
2, 1931. petition that the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health A-mlnlstratlon (OSHA) Issue an emergency temporary
standard reduclng the exposure for the fumlgant
EDB. The Teamsters' petition clalms that "three major studles"
show EDB be a potent carclnogen at levels far below those
allowed the present OSHA standard.
OSHA has been asked
to Hrlte an OSHA has no definitive plan of actlon untll
1: has more data.
conslder-d. Dr. L. Vernon Whlte of Great Lakes Chemlcal and
Mr. Mangham of Ethyl Corporatlon will attend an OSHA
meetlng EDB on October 13 as Industry representatlves.
Ethylene
clarlfy -everal questlons relatlng the flnal report of the
chronlc study conducted for the panel by Drs.
Maltonl .nd Spreaflco.
Ethylene Dxlde
Councll 29 companles and assoclatlons. The Sclentlflc
Budgets .nd
proposal- are be submltted the Ear: Executlve Commlttee
Cltlzen Research Group and the Amerlcan Federatlon of
Stats. and Munlclpal Employees to Issue an emergency
standard. Also OSHA stated that an advance notlce of
proposed rulemaklng (ANPR) woulid be Issued.
Included In the
037913

denlal 3 statement that regulatlon of sterllant and
pestlcld- end users of ethylene oxlde would be under EPA'S

a motlon for 1njunct1ve rellef In the DC Dlstrlct Court;
however. thls has not occurred.
on 1, the Group dld
basls the denlal.

All 19 p.rt1c1pat1ng companles have commltted to the
creased of 51.9 million for calendar year 1932.
There
tlon of Valldlty of the Ozone Depletlon Theory Hill
dlmlnlsh In the near future.
Four CMA representatlves attended the Coordlnatlng
Commltte- on the Ozone Layer at Copenhagen, Denmark, on October
Two task forces and the Fluorocarbon Program Panel
met In Rmme, Italy the week of October 19, 1931.
A number of
Visiting sclentlsts partlclpated 1n presentatlons and panel
dlscusslmns on atmospherlc measurements technlques and results
and the -tatus of atmospherlc modellng.
J
time, to fund onsihalf the atmospherlc llfetlme experlment
(ALE) the next year (total cost approxlmately 5400,0007.
FPP Hill reallocate authorlzed funds to support the
whole prmgram for the 51x months startlng 11/1/91. 71: Is
that the Elva ALE statlons contlnue measurements
will testlfy on the state of the sclence before the

Glycol
The Is conslderlng developlng exposure data and has
begun a program NPCA and CSMA. The panel Is also
program EPA and/or OSHA.
Current .dvocacy actlvltles
1nvolve Hlth NIDSH. ACGIH. and ECETDC.
ketones
The Is undertaklng an advocacy program on four
ketones the ITC 115::
The
program developlng use and exposure as
well as . Voluntary test program.
0379-4
1

A Bniday Inhalatlon study on methyl Isobutyl ketone
Is underway and reproductlon and teratology studles
are conslderatlon. The panel will follow closely
mentary Iestlng on methyl ethyl ketone by and methyl
Isoamyl by Eastman Kodak. The panel met once EPA
on recommendatlons for ketones under Sectlon 4137 and
Is develmplng a document for submlsslon to the Agency.
The
document will present summarles of toxlclty data on the four
ketones .nd use and exposure
research program will also be Included.
Phosgene
Inltlal (Albert Elnsteln College of expo*
sure will begln In early November.
Three
safety and all the allled materlal pertlnent were
approved by the Englneerlng and Safety Task Group and the panel
on 14 and 15, respectlvely.
Esters
Test Development Branch of EPA the Voluntary test
program address potentlal health and envlronmental effects
TRUE Is proceedlng Hlth
Agency of the program.
Dr. Deputy Admlnlstrator of EPA,
the of DEEP at thls tune.
Is
almed at determlnlng the cause of the bloassay results, will he
to FDA.
The hopes that FDA will accept the
program lleu of an Interlm regulatlon or ban on DEHA.
FDA and sclentlsts are exchanglng Vlews on the devel*
opment regulatory actlons to assure publlc safety and the
use of an "Irreplaceable" substance In food contact
The PCB Panel Is preparlng 1:: comments on several
to characterlze the nature and scope of chloroblphenyls whlch are Incldentally generated by the chemlcal Indus*
try to the number of pieces of electrlcal equlpment
whlch PCBS, the Volume of PCB: and thelr concentratlon
ranges. form these surveys are In the analysls stage and
Will be In the panel's submlsslon to EPA.
An narratlve dlssertatlon descrlblng the prob?
lems and costs assoclated lowilevel PCB analysls was
to EPA on August 25, 1931.


11
An roundirobln testlng program was Inltlated
laboratorles from member companles and EPA.
Its
purpose examlne Invarlablllty of results expected from
Varlous
Rubber
The Addltlves Panel Is revlewlng the flnal
The evaluated the genotoxlc propertles of three commerclal samples of the rubber
2*(Morphollnothloy benzothlazol esul fenamlde (MES).
The Hill chemlcally analyze commerclal mlxtures of ms: to
evaluate the stablllty of the compound. The panel 15 currently
Investlg.t1ng Inltlatlng several other testlng programs on
of the accelerator 2*(Morphollnothloy benzothlazolesul fenamlde The panel will chemlcally analyze commerclal
mlxtures of to evaluate the stablllty of the compound. The
panel Is currently Investlgatlng Inltlatlng several other test*
ZDDPS by Ethyl were subject to a battery of
1n Vltro tests. Posltlve results In some of the assays were
obtalned and Ethyl submltted the to EPA as an ad?
dendum .. a prevlous TSCA Sectlon report on posslble
effects assoclated these chemlcals.
Further
research on ZDDPS Is under coni
slderatl-n by the Panel. Phase II of the program will examlne
specles ulfferences respect to skln absozptlon of ZDDPS
and the of the rabblt as a model for testlcular effects.

1

‘
REPORT THE DIRECTOR 0F GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM

When Reagan made his publlc appeal last month on new
to reach his overall budget goals, he rejected delays 1n
any of recently enacted 1nd1v1dual tax reductlons. Instead,
bonds. .. accelerate the quarterly payment of corporate 1ncome
taxes. .. repeal and 1nd1v1dual energy tax credlts, and to
llmlnate the practlce of allowlng certaln contractors to defer 1ncome
tax untll the last year of a contract.
In
the Presldent raiemphaslzed the need to enact leglslatlon
for user fees on boats. barges, and prlvate alrplanes.
by the met strong opposltlon on Capltol 3111. Early
warnlng from Senate Flnance Commlttee Chalrman Bob Dole
1nd1cated that at present a majorlty of the Senate would
prefer .. postpone the effectlve date of the Reagan 1nd1v1dual tax
Gusts fr-m July to October, both 1n 1992 and 1n 1933, rather than
to adopt new taxes so near an electlon year. on the other hand, the
pressure from the economy to bulld before dlrectly confrontlng the
For the the Presldent's optlons appear to be llmlted 1n
1nterest
rates. flows to the Treasury, and 1nflatlon. At thls writing,
ENERGY;
NATURAL .AS
posltlon on natural gas deregulatlon 15 announced, 1: Hill 1nclude
a for accelerated phased decontrol of all natural
gas over a three year perlod. The present bellef 15 that an
have consldered by the Congress. General prlnclples or gulde*
llnes leglslatlon, however, may be provlded to the Congress 1n
order to promote a hearlng process thls year. Congresslonal coni
slderatl-n Will also be 1nfluenced by the nearlng of the 1992 electlons.

hearlngs on wellhead prices for natural gas have
been by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Commlttee
for 5 and a. The hearlngs are expected to focus on
problems 1nvolved 1n 1mplement1ng the Natural Gas Pollcy Act (NGPA7
broader gas lssues, and has requested an opportunlty
support to grow for the major elements of 3.x. 4350,
offered Representatlve Phll Gramm (D7TX767.
The and supportlng 1nformatlon contlnues be
provlded to key Admlnlstratlon offlclals and Congresslonal members.
to offer a natural gas lssues brleflng to member company
Washlngt-n representatlves, posslbly 1n November. A natural gas
ENERGY;

on 30, the Senate Energy and Natural Resourc s
completed markup of leglslatlon deslgned to deal Hlth a
by James A. McClure were 1ncluded 1n
the Verslon. The Standby Petroleum Allocatlon Act of 1991
w-uld provlde the Presldent broad dlscretlonary authorll
and a 115: of optlons 1n the event of a severe petroleum
prlorlty provlslons of the EPAA were added, 1nclud1ng a provlslon
for petr-chemlcals. The 1: ready for Senate floor actlon and
actlvlty could occur 1n late October.
Markup h.s been delayed' 1n the House Energy and Commerce Sub?
on Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels, and probably will not be
R. sharp dle
a b111, 3.x. 47mm, 1n many respects to the unamem
Senate The Standby Authorlty Petroleum Allocatlon Act of
but requlre adoptlon of regulatlons conslstent the
speclfled 1n the old EPAA.
that no 15 necessary and that free market forces can
best all-cate resources.
the CMA effort will be to assure recognltlon of a high
prlorlty for feedstocks, as 1n the Senate
CLEAN ACT AMENDMENTS
The Reag.n Admlnlstratlon 15 beglnnlng provlde some of the
momentum necessary for amendment of the Clean Alr Act.

3
In late .eptember, Presldent Reagan reafflrmed "the Admlnlsi
keen Interest In Congress make much needed
correctl-ns the Clean Alr Act thls year", In a letter to Senate
Majorlty Leader Howard Baker and to House Mlnorlty Leader Robert Mlchel.
prlorlty 1n the area of regulatory and changes 1n the Act
Since Vice Presldent Bush has begun selectlvely coni
tactlng of the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee
and the Energy and Commerce Commlttee to encourage development
by EFA Admlnlstrator Anne Gorsuch 1n early August.
Senator T. Stafford Chalrman of the Senate CommlttEE,
now has worklng to develop consensus and leglslatlve language
new pace could be a reflectlon of the fact that Stafford has just
he 15 runnlng for raielectlon, and thus seeks closer tles
Hlth the Admlnlstratlon.
on 13, representatlves met the Senate Commlttee
staff to dlscuss recently released draft leglslatlve language. Our
De: rlor-tlon proposals, but we focused prlmarlly on the
Alr Pollutants porgram proposals (Sectlon 1127.
In the H-uSE, there has been llttle movement toward the draftlng
Chalrman John D. (DrMIrlay and Ranklng Mlnorlty Leader
James T. Broyhlll (RrNCrlD). Industry hopes to generate 1nterest 1n
the hearlngs 1n the Subcommlttee on Health and the
whlch are scheduled through November 9.
ments of the Clean Alr Act will be dellvered at hearlngs of the
on all recommended revlslons Will be submltted for
Our Alr Act leglslatlve program contlnues to 1nclude
actlve p.rt1c1patlon 1n a broad coalltlon organlzed to
work for amendments thls year. We helped develop the coalltlon's
document detalllng 12 baslc areas of necessary change 1n
the Act "make 1: work". We are cooperatlng 1n sharlng the document
Hlth members and staff 1n order to show 1ndustry unlty

4
Further. as part of our objectlve to generate both publlc
the Alr Act, 3 "Actlon Advlsory" was lssued on September 25
to all companles, urglng: contact Senators and
groups; -nd, encouragement of others to help carry the message.
Rep. Moffett September 10 sent a letter to
your not to lssue a natlonal groundwater strategy at thls
tune." 24.55355 maln concern 1: that the Admlnlstratlon Will not
contlnue worklng on a Natlonal Groundwater Pollcy Guldance Docum nt.
1
In the p-st, Moffett has threatened to 1ntroduce federal
to regulate groundwater 15 a Natlonal Pollcy was not
Hlthln EPA. Moffet's Subcommlttee on Envlronment, Energy
Hill an overslght hearlng October 21, 1991 dlscuss
and lssues.
CLEAN ACT
Commltte- completed work on 3.x. 4503 (Roe. to authorlze for
one 19327 52.4 bllllon for the sewage treatment constructlon
1: was specter! that Rep. Jim Dberstar would
offer amendment that would extend the 1994 date for achlevlng
Best Technology (BAT).
1
The Water Act Task Group of the Government Relatlons
Commltte‘. expressed the followlng concerns Hlth the Dberstar
of the Water Act 1n 1932.
These ne-ds go far beyond a slmple extenslon of
we support an extenslon of the 1994 BAT date,
we have . deep concern that the 1ncluslon of such
Vlew of 3 and 4 next year.

1234
037.15

r
an
d
The Group contacted key members of the Publlc Works
but the grants b111, 3.x. 4503, could be brought to
the floor by the end of October, and Mr. Dberstar 15 conslderlng
amendment at that tune. The Task Group will be expresslng
key members of the House, and stresslng the need for
complet-d 1:: work on the constructlon grants b111, s. 1274. Durlng
the the Commlttee Voted unanlmously to repeal the Industrlal
Cost provlslon (the scicalled Stafford Amendment).
submltt-d a letter supportlng the repeal of ICE to all members of
has .een granted the rlght to 1ntervene 1n the New Jersey
General's lawsult on praiemptlon agalnst the Federal
Governm-nt. Judge Flannery of the v.5. Dlstrlct Court for the
of Columbla will now hear the Federal Government's motlon
of Englneers be used to 35515: 1n the cleanup of
became .oncerned about the use of the Corps for cleanup and asked
for 1:: Vlews.
In a le-ter to Davld Stockman dated
15, CMA strongly supported the use of prlvate contractors
1n the and constructlon work requlred under Superfund. CMA
531d Corps presently does not have the experlence'or tralned
that Will be necessary to conduct the remedlal cleanup
program called for 1n Superfund.
Rep. Fl-rlo held an overslght hearlng on the Superfund law
July 29, before his Subcommlttee on Commerce, Transportatlon and
Tourlsm of the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee. Durlng the
hearlng, Florlo developed a dlscusslon on jolnt and several llablllty
Hlth Gorsuch and Department of Justlce's Carol that
to confuse the lssues. therefore felt 1: necessary
several llablllty. We contend that the fallure of Congress to pro*
were crltlzed by Senator Robert Stafford 1n the Congre57
slonal 'ecord of September 9.
037.17

has learned that a draft of proposed 1ntezpretatlve
Hlthln the Internal Revenue Servlce. We antlelpate that
the regulatlons Will be movlng forward from the to
the Tre.sury Department Within the next few weeks.
TRADE;
EXPORT.IF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
on February 17, 1991 proposals for changes 1n exlstlng
notlflc.tlon systems for exports of substances. A
large of pestlclde exports would be most affected along
Hlth eventually to be restrlcted under TSCA. The Reagan
Admlnls-ratlon has dropped any plans for control or prohibition of
such as provlded for 1n Presldent Carter's executlve order
whlch Reagan subsequently revoked.
Since F-bruary, the Commerce and State Departments have eni
counter-d dlsagreements 1n writing the jolnt response. The most
serlous dlfference of opinion 15 through what channels 1nformatlon
15 passed from the v.5. exporter the country recelvlng the
v.5. of the recelvlng country. Another lssue 1n the jolnt,
Will be whether recommendatlons are made to amend approi t
prlate -ectlons of exlstlng and TSCA laws. The posltlon)
that should not be amended for thls purpose has been strongly?
by our spokesman.
The has worked closely Hlth government offlclals durlng
thls of evaluatlon. Close liaison Hlth *the Natlonal
Chemlcals Assoclatlon and the Pharmaceutlcal Manufatk
turers has been malntalned and a fully coordlnated
malntalned.
comment on the flnal draft before 1: 15 approved by an 1nteragency"

trade Hlth Mexlco and Canada. Tenslons Canada ;
over 1:- Natlonal Energy Flan and the Federal Investment Revlew Act
and Mexlco on a number of lssues have served to helghten the '
The Pre-ldent made a report to Congress on a North Amerlcan t»
unlon July 2a. 315 Visits Hlth Mexlcan Presldent Lopez Portlllo
and Can.dlan Prune Mlnlster Trud au have been only prellmlnarles but


7
grows that Mexlco and Canada are seeklng duty free access
to the petrochemlcal market. The Admlnlstratlon has stated
that 1: wlshes to free up markets and trade flows. 1: 15 llkely
that agreements will eventually be made. v.5.
exports to Canada 1n 1980 were 52.1 bllllon and to Mexlco,
15 close liaison a Senate Caucus and a
been to v.5. Trade Representatlve Brock by Mr. Leo Johnstone,
Petroleum Company. The letter emphaslzes the chemlcal
stake 1n a trade arrangement, and requests that the 1ndustry
b kept of developments affectlng chemlcals 1n the hope that
Varlous pieces of leglslatlon 1n the Congress deallng
government pollcy have been 1ntroduced but are not llkely
to see actlon soon.
SEMINAR PLANNED
hold a semlnar at the Marrlott Hotel. 22nd and M Streets.
v_c. M11: Hunt, of the Will preslde.
of 1nterest to chemlcal companles Will be covered thoroughly
Will be an 1ntroductory overvlew by Leo Johnstone, Executlve
Vlc 7 Phillips Petroleum Company. Ambassador 5111 Brock
Hill at a dlnner December a.
detalls and a reglstratlon form will be wldely
on October 23.
on 29 the House approved 3.x. 3495, the Energy and
Commlttee reauthorlze TSCA for two years at a
fundlng level of $52 million (plus 51.5 million for state programs).
5. passed by the Senate last May, would reauthorlze TSCA for
one at 559.5 mllllon. A Conference 1: expected to resolve the
to respond to Congressman Florlo's staff 1n thelr efforts
037-19

study the adequacy of the PMN test data, although the letter
requestlng to begln work has not been sent.
In the
15 worklng Hlth EPA to produce a Vlable PMN exemptlon:
pollcy new, low rlsk chemlcals under sectlon of TSCA,
as well as the negotlatlons between the v.5. and regardlng
to remedy chemlcal 1ndustry concerns.
on 23 Senator Paula Hawklns' Overslght and
Subcommlttee began long awalted hearlngs on OSHA
and rec-mmendatlons for the future. Thorns Auchter was commended
for his efforts to the Agency away from 1:5 prevlous
what he percelved be an "emasculatlon" of worker protectlons
but on wholE, Auchtdr stood up well to the questlonlng and made
The Admlnlstratlon Will not be movlng toward leglslatlve
change thls area untll other prlorltles are handled and there
has an opportunlty determlne whlch admlnlstratlve
the of developlng recommendatlons for OSHA reform at the
tune.
HAZARDS CDMMUNICATIDNS/LABELING
1:5 hearlngs on osaA's wlthdrawal of 1:: proposed hazards
Master testlfled agalnst the orlglnal proposed OSHA stands
from a chemlcal company standpolnt, provldlng detall as to ho"
The hearlngs have been scheduled for November 3, at whlch OSHA!
Thorns Hill testlfy on labellng as well as other matters
Hlthln framework of OSHA overslght.
and to Subcommlttee members responslve 1ndustry posltlo
1n of a new performance*or1ented, cost effectlve and
reasona-le hazards communlcatlons standard.
on 24 the House nee Subcommlttee on Res arch and.
Technol-QY, chalred by Doug Walgren held a hearlng on
037.20

Don Rlsk Analysls Research and
and dem-nstratlon program under the dlrectlon of the Whlte House
Offlce .5 Sclence and Technology Pollcy. 1: would authorlze
51.7 mllllon for a twoiyear government R L n program to 1mprove
rlsk an-lysls technlques 1n regulatory declslonmaklng, and a twoyear rlsk analysls study by regulatory agencles and the Natlonal
Sclence Foundatlon.
1n favor of the were Congressman Jim Martln
Congressman Attorney Mlchael Baram, and Brooklngs'
Whlte H-use Task Force on Regulatory Rellef, testlfled on behalf of
the Dr. Mlller agreed Hlth the goals and concepts of
the but could not give 1: offlclal support. In
Within OMB (1.e., the Task Force on Regulatory
wlthout addltlonal approprlatlons.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
The Senate and House that reauthorlze and
actlon. 3.x. 3403 1: Scheduled for October and s. 950 should
be on by the end of October. CMA 15 explorlng the posslbllltles
of hazardous materlals transportatlon laws. There 15 also
a possl-lllty of efforts to add undeslrable floor amendments.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
RAILRDAI DEREGULATIDN
Sclence and Transportatlon Commlttee for November 10. Th
sesslon. CMA 1: 1n the process of preparlng comments to be submltted
for the record and may present testlmony.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
REFORM
belng c-nsldered. Hearlngs were held 1n late September before the
037921

Senate Sclence and Transportatlon Subcommlttee on
Marlne. presented testlmony on s. 1593, a
by Chalrman Slade Gorton 1R7Wash.) and ﬁlled a supplemental
wltness. Actlvlty has also begun 1n the House Merchant Marlne
for October 7, 13, and 19. 15 preparlng :9 ﬁlls a
end of lctober.
TRANSPI'TATIDN t
There 15 1ncreaslng 1nterest 1n leglslatlon deallng the
1nland system and harbors and ports. User fees are a
major of Presldent Reagan's proposals, and
15 belng 1ntroduced to permit authorltles to collect us
fees :- repay 1mprovement and development costs. Proposals are bel
and hearlngs could be announced 1n both the Senate and
House. CMA 15 worklng a coalltlon of organlzatlons as the
lssues and tlmetables unfold.
15 actlvely seeklng passage of regulatory reform
leglsl.tlon. Cooperatlng Hlth allled groups behlnd the
leadershlp of the Roundtable, CMA has asslsted 1n the
Paul Laxalt (R7NeV—7. The focus has been to secure amend?
ments would provlde that "good sclence" be consldered a prlni
alpal Iactor 1n the regulatory declslonimaklng process.
5. has been reported amendments by both the Senate
Jud1c1.ry Commlttee and the Senate Government Affalrs Commlttee.
CMA'S "good sclence" amendments. CMA 15 worklng to assure that a
In the HouSE, the Judlclary Subcommlttee on Admlnlstratlve

u

0F THE PATENT
restor- to the term of a patent grant the perlod durlng whlch
ne d :- secure Federal regulatory approval.
The on thls subject are 5. 255 and
3.x. 1-37 (Kastlnmeleriljivhsd and they are substantlally Similar.
Th Sen.te passed 1n July. The House Judlclary Subcommlttee
on Libertles, and the Admlnlstratlon of Justlce began
1:5 he.r1ngs on thls subject 1n September and held subsequent hearlngs
1n Dct-ber.
15 worklng 1n 3 coalltlon under the leadershlp of
the Manufacturers' Assoclatlon to secure passage.

UNIFIEI 0F APPEALS
on Dct-ber 14, 1931, the House Judlclary Commlttee favorably
amendments. 3.x. 4432, a establlsh a
court .5 patent appeals. Th1: may be taken up on the House
floor suspenslon of the rules Hlthln the next few weeks.
by the Senate Judlclary Commlttee on Tuesday, October 20. The key
155“ a- that time Will be a proposed amendment by Senator Baucus
to allow the present Federal Clrcult Courts of Appeal to
retaln jurlsdlctlon over patent appeals. CMA 15 worklng closely 1n
the co.lltlon of allled 1nterests 1n support of 5..
and 1n opposltlon the Baucus amendment.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE:
DEVELOPMENTS
At 1:: September 17 meetlng, the State Affalrs Speclal Commlttee
alr surface water lssues at the state level. Th1: paralleled a
brleflng on Federal Superfund made at the
prior

ISSUE IASK
approV-d by the Executlve Commlttee and Board at thelr Septemb r
meetlnn. the Commlttee addressed 1:: leglslatlve and regulatory
prlorl-les for 1932. Th1: process began Hlth the dlstrlbutlon
of a lssues survey whlch canvassed all member companles,
5:.56, and key technlcal commlttees. Based upon the results
of the more than 100 responses recelved, the Commlttee establlshed
lssue groups 1n the followlng areas:
a
e
e
e
Hazardmus Waste Dlsposal (Superfund and Sltlng)
Hazard- Communlcatlon (R1ght*to*Know7
Hazardnus Materlals Transportatlon
(Alr and Water oualltyy
Wlthln 1:5 asslgned subject area, each lssue task group Hill:
a
e
e
e
e
the 1ntroductlon and progress of State
where .pproprlate Assoclatlon pollcy does not
exlst, work technlcal and functlonal

through member companles and approprlate
local seeks to coordlnate 1ndustry
support, through the State Affalrs Speclal
1n to assure a conslstent Federal/State pollcy.
meetlngs were held so that lssue task groups could
address any remalnlng 1991 leglslatlve and/or regulatory
propos.ls, revlew 1991 actlvlty, establlsh contact the corresp<
develop procedures and asslgn responslbllltles for 1nformat:
and dlscuss advocacy mechanlsms and coalltlons. Issu task
groups will contlnue these meetlngs through the fall to prepare for
the of the 1992 leglslatlve sesslons.
FUNCTIINAL TASK
The St.te Affalrs Speclal Commlttee establlshed two functlonal
state

a
e
serve as the forum for the periodic screenlng
and s_lectlon of Vendors of electronlc leglsi
latlv. and regulatory tracklng servlcesi
monlt-r the performance of the contractlng
and serve as a liaison between the
cheml-al 1ndustry subscrlbers and the elec*
tronl- servlces suppllers;
sessl-ns for member company personnel on
Th1: .ask group the efforts of an ad hoc group of chemlcal
1ndu5-ry companles who contracted Hlth an electronlc state and
regul.tory tracklng servlce for 1991. these contracts expiring
at and of December. the task group has been engaged 1n selectlng
an Vendor for 1932. Th1: process 15 now complete and
contr.cts are expected to be Signed 1n early November. In addltlon,
the t_sk group 15 actlvely encouraglng addltlonal member companles

regul.tory matters for the chemlcal 1ndustry. The Network Task
Group H1115
e
e
e
by dr.w1ng upon the resources of CMA member
and Industry Counclls, develop a
of personnel to provlde the basls
for 1ntelllgence gatherlng and advocacy

and assoclatlons facllltate the
of and the coordlnatlon
provlwe through 1:: personnel reglster, addltlonal
thelr dellvery capabllltles;
seek enhance the effectlveness and 1nfluence
of chemlcal 1ndustry 1n the Varlous states
focal polnts for local efforts.
0.7925

meet members of the Varlous CIC'S. Durlng Septembex
and were Visited.
1991 ACTIVITY WINDING DOWN
The V-st majorlty of state leglslatures have adjourned for
the y-ar only a few of the major 1ndustrlal states remalnlng
1n sesslon. A few states are 1n speclal sesslon consldex
some .ctlvlty thls fall 1n several states on two of our prlorlty
on S-otember 24, Governor Brown Signed 1nto law SB 618 whlch
Startlng three wldely dlvergent sponsored by
comp-tlng 1nterests, the flnal product reflects Significant
succ-ss on the part of the chemlcal 1ndustry. Although some of the
Verslon 1: much more reasonable than the radlcal proposal
by the Brown admlnlstratlon and 1:5 envlronmental supports
on whole, 1ndustry worked closely and effectlvely on thls issue.
the servlces of 1:: legal staff to 35515: 1n draftln'
durlng late June and early July. Also, the Callfornla
has declded to establlsh a permanently staffed offlce.
In Jersey, dlscusslons are contlnulng concernlng proposed
Federal Superfund. Compllcatlng these dlscusslons
are lawsults brought by Elva New Jersey companles (Exxon, Tennec
BF G-odrlch. Monsanto and Unlon Carblde) 1n New Jersey, and by the
Stat- of New Jersey agalnst EFA 1n Washlngton 1n whlch 1nterv net
15 by Federal Superfund. 1: 15 5:111 posslble that the
New Jersey Leglslature Will take up thls subject 1n lame duck sesslor
1n has worked closely durlng the past several months
both the and the lltlgants group to keep all partles fully

were held on September 15 1n Madlson, Wlsconsln, on
AB .15 whlch 15 sponsored by Assemblywoman Muntz.
to that 1:: most damaglng provlslons are not passed.

on the munlclpal level, Clnclnnatl, Dhlo scheduled hearlngs
1n October on an ordlnance that 15 potentlally Very unfavorable
to 1ndustry. Santa Monlca, Callfornla, 15 also movlng on a
K
037927
