Exhlblt I
REPORT TO THE BOARD 0F
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
John B. Clark. Chalrman
Patent and Trademark Commlttee
September 14,
1975
you Will recall that 1: 15 the responslblllty of the Patent
nd Trademark Commlttee to malntaln an awareness of new developments
1n the 1ndustrlal property Eleld havlng present or prospectlve unpact
on the chemlcal 1ndustry; MCA posltlons where warranted,
and to act Either dlrectly or through the Board of Dlrectors, as 15
1n maklng MCA Viewpoints known.
Last October I had the opportunlty to report to you on the
status of patent leglslatlon 1n the Congress.
You Will recall 1: was
predlcted that 572255 would be passed by the Senate and forwarded to
"he House for thelr conslderatlon.
You Will also recall that 1n the
Hklnlon of your Patent Commlttee, 572255 15 an llliconcelved piece of
leglslatlon whlch Will have a serlous negatlve 1mpact on the value
of the patent system.
572255 was passed by the Senate and sent to the House
llttle substantlve amendment desplte serlous efforts by MCA and others
, to modlfy and 1mprove objectlonable sectlons.
A5 of today, 1: appears
unllkely that the House subcommlttee responslble for patent leglslatlon
Will get to '572255 thls year, and as a result, 1: Hill the thls
Congress.
thls 15 welcome news 1n that 1: malntalns the status
quo for the tune we can Very llkely expect renewed actlvlty
next year.
I should note that several changes are needed to 1mprove the
sponsored by Rep. Wiggins of Callfornla.
Rep. Wiggins 15 mlnorlty
leader of the House subcommlttee concerned patent leglslatlon
he appears to be concerned preservlng and strengthenlng the
system.
Our 15 prepared to contlnue to 35515: 1n the
will be geared 1n thls dlrectlon.
I Wish to speak brlefly about what 15 happenlng 1n the area, but before proceedlng 1n that dlrectlon, I should note
at
Patent I-mmlttee has also provlded comments to on a
A patent
we recommended a pollcy deslgned
037054
a and experlence 1n the energy Eleld.
To thls
He urged of a pollcy whlch would provlde a flexlble approach
to ownershlp of patents resultlng from Governmentisponsored R&D, and uh
would permlt the Government Admlnlstrator to grant excluslve or
partlally llcenses to energy 1nventors where tltle 15 Vested
To proceed Hlth developments 1n the 1nternatlonal area,
you are all aw-re of the changlng attltudes of many of the Developlng
Countrles.
1n the 1ndustr1-l property and technology transfer areas,
thls has 1n new laws 1n Mexlco and other South Amerlcan
J
countrles, a new law 1n Canada, and a great deal of actlvlty
1n Varlous and the Drganlzatlon of Amerlcan States, etc. 1
Since a number MCA member companles are concerned these changes,
we are seeklng to deflne the part MCA should play 1n thls Connectlon.
to date our actlvlty has been llmlted, we have been consulted
by and have our comments to the v.5. Government negotlators
Hlth regard to eff-rts by Developlng Countrles to change the Parls
Conventlon on and trademarks.
In addltlon. and response to ;
Talwan affectlng chemlcal 1ndustry, an Ad Hoc Group of Patent
Commlttee members. uogether the v.5. Asslstant Commlssloner of
Patents, were to meet the Talwanese Mlnlster of Economlc
Affalrs to 35515: 1n understandlng the economlc consequences of Hhal
they were proposlng do.
Th1: meetlng was and 1: appeared to
and that the proposed change will be moderated.
We Will gain a better
feel for thls as He Patent Offlce declslons 1n the future.

on another front, 15 proposlng a number of radlcal
changes to thelr patent law, whlch, 15 accepted, would substantlally
reduce the attractlven-ss of seeklng patents 1n Canada.
Commlssloner of together Hlth a small 1ndustry group, has
to dlscuss the of adoptlon.
thls 15 not
an MCA Patent Colrmlttee actlvlty, we are heavlly represented.
The
delegatlon 15 1ntended t“ be a cr05575ectlon of v.5. 1ndustry, and 1n
addltlon MCA members IuPont. Phllllps, Merck, and Monsanto, both
IBM and G.E. Hill
The meetlng 1: Scheduled October 21
and preparatlons are 1n swlng.
Flnally, 1: 15 my strong that MCA must contlnue to
play a role and w. Will be attemptlng to deflne thls role
more clearly 1n the comlng year.
037055
