servatl-n Reportlng Program recommendlng that DOE not
make te-hnlcal changes to the reportlng methodology that
would b- costly to members, and that DOE delete amblguous parts of the report.
further unprovements.
As part of the comments to the omb on paperwork reductlon, also recommended that new data collectlon initiatives he subject to a publlc hearlng process, and that
survey nespondents be the option of reportlng
through a trade asso.clatlon to assure greater Confldeni
tlallty protectlon.

1
1
I
1
I
Coda
comment- on preprlntlng the 1994 Natlonal Electrlcal
Code.
Natlonal

EAC on eight standards
Natlonal Standards.

for

as
NFPA St.ndards Councll
ask-d the NFPA Standards Councll to return proposed
requlrements to commlttee because of the
needles- heavy expense to 1ndustrv.
ISO Standards
EAC Vlews on ISO chemlcal pump
tlon the n5 Technlcal Advlsory Group.
WEALTH.
PMN Rules
Clay B.
express CMA'S concern

few Will use 1:.
on 4, ﬁlled comments on these proposed rules.
EPA that the lowivolume 51te*llm1ted proposal would beneflt the 1ndustry.
I


The Assnclatlon proposed a clarlflcatlon of the 1ndustry
expert's role.
major modlflcatlons
to the proposal.
The Assnclatlon commented that
process accordlng to broad categorles based on average
molecul.r welght.
51:: of the proposed PMN exemptlon rules to Varlous
ences.
The 1ncludes meetlngs Hlth the
press. .nd dlstrlbutlng a comprehenslve 1nformatlon pack*
age to trade assoclatlons and the press.
was the spokesman.
polnts 1n 1:: comments and addressed speclflc con*
cerns r.1sed by the Natural Resources Defense Councll and
EPA que-tlons and assertlons made by publlc 1nterest
groups .t the November 1, EPA publlc hearlng.
In thes-
comment- CMA provlded further justlflcatlon for relaxlng
the PMN exemptlon proposal for polymers.
Meetlng
the proposed PMN exemptlon rules and the flnal
TSCA and reportlng rules.

mately people attended the meetlng.
Workshov on Data
Quallty Indlcators
The report of the Workshop on Data Duallty 1nd1cai
tors wa- completed 1n October.
the work?
shop 1n cooperatlon the Natlonal Academy of
ces, th- Federatlon of Amerlcan Socletles for Experlmeni
Copies ms the report
can be for $5.00 from CMA.
TSCA
Rule
a extenslon of the reportlng perlod for the TSCA
Sectlon rule.
EPA to deny thls generlc
Instead, the Agency chose to conslder 1nd1v1dual
company requests.
encouraged 1:: member compani
1a: to 1nd1v1dual requests for extenslons.
EPA
has extenslons for many of those requests.

Plannlng
Each
member lssues of 1nterest hls/her company
the regulatlon of chemlcals and product safety.
the and the Assoclatlon.
year.
or promlsed responses, to the CMA
company actlvltles to reduce unreasonable rlsk
about
survey
now tot.l
.. Know Actlvltles
lssues, the last 1nsertlon 1n the to Know
Packet. was completed December 2, 1932.
The to
local Industry Counclls.
on Reproductlon Rlsks
The 053 Commlttee 15 plannlng a twoiday conference on
Rlsks. be held 1n the spring of 1933.
Will be llmlted to CMA members.
will
survey sclentlflc and legal framework Hlthln whlch
Repre*

Access
to
Records
to Empl-yee Records [47 PR 30420, Julv 13, 19321.
Access
OSHA on October 26, 1932.
Hazards Communlcatlons
1, 1932.

Cancer
Pollcy
on an earlv draft of Part I Natlonal
Cancer 'ollcy, from the Offlce of Sclence and Technology
Pollcy were submltted December 3, 1932.

all. we belleve 1: 15 an excellent document.
OSHA Pr-posal on Benchmarks
for
Hlth Agency's 1ntent to state funds to permit
for the federal government 1n each state.
Regulat-ry Impact Analysls
The
EPA to use reallstlc data and not try to quani
Pollcy Model
RISC an 1nidepth revlew of EPA'S RCRA rlsk/cost
pollcy
The 15 1ntended to help EPA set
waste m.nagement priorities and select strategles for
waste streams.
Arsenlc
plans t- complete the analysls of the remalnlng data from
Extend?
the analysls would 1ncrease conslderably the statlsi
tlcal p-wer of the earller concluslon that there 15 no
resplratory cancer rlsk assoclated arsenlc
below sun /1g/m".
sure a presumed carclnogen.
OSHA joln
1n the analysls and to postpone concluslon of
results are avaliable.
Benzene
benzene toxlcology study under the ausplces of CMA and
API. A flnal report 15 under revlew.

c
outslde counsel and to meet to dlscuss the pro*
The and counsel
Hill Hlth a representatlve of the Joint
Expert on Food AddltlveS to determlne
what 15 any, the Panel should take 1n sDonsorlna
to address concerns.

a flnal report on a paradlchlorobenze n e
(PDCB7 teratology study 1n rabblts.

to 0, 1.0, 300, or sun ppm PDCB was not embryotoxlc or
1n thls specles.
The was the last 1n 3
serles .5 teratology studles on chlorobenzenes conducted
by the low Toxlcology Research Laboratory,
Epoxy
I
use, exposure, envlronmental release and
health 1nformatlon 1n order to work Hlth EPA to
develop a reasonable regulatory response to the ITC
Dxlde
EPA a study plan for Voluntary testlng of
ethylen- oxlde
alkyl recommended by the ITC for testlng under
The plan outllnes a program
to evaluate posslble reproductlve effects and
cytogen-tlc changes assoclated Hlth exposure to
Group/DSHA lawsult.
Notlce .5
maklng Scheduled for June 1933.
1n
Cltlzen Health
Eula?
Fluoroc.rbons
The Balloon Intercomparlson Campalgn (BIC) 1: 1n the data
reductl-n stage followlng a successful fllght 1n Septem*
her of four large balloons.
nearly = year of preparatlon and cooperatlon between
entlsts from seven natlons Belglum, France, Japan,
Italy, Canada and the os.
Fundlng was provlded
by the countrles, the Natlonal Aeronautlcs
and CMA.
Plans f-r BIC Phase II, scheduled for
1
c
1


snrlng |983,
well
All of 1nvest1gators
from I Will partlclpate 1n BIC 11, several

Ether:
.nd ethvlene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE), are
belng r-Vlewed by EPA as part of the Exlstlng Chemlcals
Program.
flve*st.ge revlew process.
The Pan-l will meet EPA
The Pan-l submltted test data Callfornla OSHA for
The pan-l submltted comments on a draft Current
15 released.
The Pan-l submltted comments on the draft Chemlcal
The pan-l submltted comments on
the draft Prlorlty
Hazard
Level
r
I
Commlttee's recommendatlons on 4,4' *me thylenedl aniline.
ductlve and teratology testlng.
Ketones
The rule on mesltyl oxlde Will be lssued 1n
1 993,
Rubber
to study the genotoxlc propertles of two rubber
tles of the Natlonal Toxlcology Program and the Inter*
agency Testlng Commlttee.
t
1
Phthal.te Esters
Safety Commlsslon (CPscy staff to dlscuss technlcal 1n,
1n 3 report prepared by Arthur D. on

the us-s of and potentlal substltutes for phthalate
esters 1P5) 1n consumer products.
Th1: d-cument was
releas-d 1n Violation of Sectlon 611m of the Consumer
Produc- Safetv Act.
counsel objectlng the premature release.
The
Panel .159 submltted detalled technlcal comments to the
Hlth toxlcologlsts dlscuss the results of the
TRTG'S genotoxlclty testlng and CPsc's exposure studles.
The staff will prepare a brleflng package and meet
products.
tunlty to comment on the brleflng package and meet
Branch flnal reports on Phase I of the Health Effects
Program.
The re-ults of the research indicate
that D'HA, DEEP and the metabolltes of DEEP, and
2733 not genotoxlc.
The submltted a proposal
effect- testlng on PE.
to EPA for Phase
The met the Toy Manufacturer's Assoclatlon
descrlhe the Voluntary Testlng Program on Phthai
late
counsel had recommended to
The Pond and Drug Appllcatlons Task Group (FDATG7 submlti
ted data on DEHA to FDA.
These wata were generated
as of the Voluntary Test Program agreed to between
FDA the
second PCB rule that would have excluded only processes
Hlth n-nquantlflable releases of PCBS.
EPA'S rule
numerlcal cutoffs for release deemed by EPA
to be lowest practlcally measurable level.
on 1, 1932, EPA ﬁlled Hlth the Us Dlstrlct Court
of a schedule for the thlrd rule that 1ncludes a
propos.l on December 1, 1933, and a flnal rule on July 1,
03.037
EPA that addltlonal on PCB exposure
should he obtalned from 1nterested 1ndustry groups.
Styren-
NIDSH an external revlew draft of a Crlterla
In the draft, NIDSH recommends that
Hlth . Ceiling of 100 ppm.
NIDSH -n December 1, 1932.
rene P.nel expressed concern Hlth data showlng ans dE*
pressl-n 1n humans at 100 ppm, the llmlted data dld not
regulatory proceedlngs.
Phase
II 15 a 'stress' study 1n rabblts deslgned to evaluate
the r-le of stress 1n produclng testlcular effects 1n
Phase III conslsts of Vltro mutagenlclty

0
THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
M. STDVER
TAXATION;
sought to regaln leglslatlve momentum 1n Washlngton by returnlng
to area of tax and budget lssues where he had won substantlal Vlctorles
durln- flrst 19 months 1n offlce.
In an effort to restore publlc enthuslasm for his program,
the proposed to accelerate the scheduled thlrd year 1nd1v1dual
tax r.te cut from July to January of 1933. However, strong early Harnlngs
from 'epubllcan Leaders on Capltol 3111 convlnced that he dld not have
the to support such a step. Congresslonal concern over rlslng
tax could be passed 1n the postielectlon Speclal Sesslon.
The also moved to demonstrate his concern over unemployment
that be passed 1n the postielectlon sesslon, the Presldent threw the
full of offlce behlnd the Transportatlon Department's proposal
to the Trust Fund and to 1ncrease the Federal exclse tax on
bulld the natlon's brldges and hlghways. on December a, the House passed
Behlnw the scenes, the Admlnlstratlon was confrontlng another major
lssue of tax and trade pollcy. In early September, the v.5. Trade Ambassador's
represented before the GATT Councll 1n Geneva that the Admlnlstratlon
would 1ntroduce leglslatlon to meet the objectlons the Domestlc Interi
by European and Canadlan members.
1: reported that 1n the meetlng
of Admlnlstratlon's Cablnet Councll just before Thanksglvlng there were
dlfferences over the proper scope of any leglslatlon to amend or
51m11.r to ursc. Equally strong 1n thelr opposltlon to and any contlnued
In of thls dlsagreement, the Cablnet Councll deferred
flnal actlon on thls issue.

tha fall. representatlves 1n Washlngton have moved
for c-ntlnued tax 1ncent1ves for u.S. exports at least equal to ursc.
Since
there 15 currently no leglslatlon whlch has Admlnlstratlon support, the
1n amendatory leglslatlon.
h.s been actlve 1n the effort of and allled trade representai
tlves to malntaln an effectlve tax program for exports. Our Tax Pollcy Commlttee
has r-Vlewed and reartlculated our posltlon on ursc so that our spokesmen can
that essentlally freeze the wellhead prices of natural gas and extend
price controls. Leglslatlon proposed 1n both Houses would also provlde
exlstlng contracts by calllng for the renegotlatlon of certaln
of accelerated and complete deregulatlon of natural gas are
now Hlth rairegulatlon pressures. Varlous cltlzen and labor groups are
that natural gas decontrol 15 a matter of "heatlng or eatlng," and
that rhetorlc 15 belng taken up by a number of Congresslonal Members.

letters are belng clrculated, and a concerted effort 1: belng made
tax measure or a contlnulng resolutlon for approprlatlons.
The .enate Flnance Commlttee has been the forum for a good deal of the
tax 1: expected to begln December 13 or 14, and that could be the target
of . natural gas control floor amendment. Senator Thomas F. Eagleton
15 -pearhead1ng the drlve. The Admlnlstratlon has not taken a Vlslbly actlve
1n opposltlon to the Varlous leglslatlve proposals that would reregulate
gas on an interim basls. but a Presldentlal Veto could occur 15 a hlghway tax
passes that 15 loaded down "negatlve" amendments.
key members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Commlttee
expressed opposltlon on jurlsdlctlonal and procedural grounds to any
on leglslatlon has been scheduled for December 13 1n that Commlttee,
but the llmlted Hltness 115: 15 heavlly welghted Senators and groups
advocate a gas price freeze.
on House 51dE, a hearlng has been scheduled for December 15 1n the
and Synthetlc Fuels Subcommlttee of the House Energy and Commerce
(171N710) have generally 1nd1cated that a "qulck 51x" approach 15 not approi
gas lssues 1n the
