r
AGENDA
MEETING OF CMA 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
Monday and Tuesday, September 9710, 1995
The Ritz Carlton (Ballroom 1v Roomy
Laguna Callfornla
TAB
Call to Order and Approval of Mlnutes of
Annual Report of the Envlronmental Manage*
Chevron Chemlcal Company;
Envlronmental Management Commlttee
Analysls of Dlngell Survey on Alr Emlsslons
Annual Report of the State Affalrs Commlti
Chalrman. State Affalrs Conalttee
Speclal Report on the Status and Programs
of the State Chemlcal Industry
Pont de Nemours & Company; Chalrman, CMA
Ad Hoc Chemlcal Industry Councll Work Group
Annual Report of the Government Relatlons
Haas Company; CMA Government
Relatlons Commlttee
lD:lDrlD:BD
Carblde Cozporatlon; Chalrman, CMA
Tax Pollcy Commlttee

11:10711:3n
Superfund Reauthorlzatlon:
a. Overvlew and Report on Assoclatlon
Eastman Kodak Company," CMA
Superfund Task Group
c. Communlcatlons Support Jon c. Holtzman
b. Assoclatlon Program and Issue Report

Viewing of New
Jon c. Holtzman
12:00 Noon
Adjournment
1
2
3
4
039290

Chalrman Clark
Chalrman Sella
Annual Report of the Speclal Programs
Pollcy Commlttee Chalrman Corless
Annual Report of the Internatlonal Affalrs
Group Thomas w. Mooney, The Procter
& Gamble Company; Vice Chalrman, Interi
natlonal Affalrs Group
Internatlonal Trade Pollcy Issues:
deratlon of Executlve Commlttee Recomi
Haas Company; CMA Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee
a. U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement
b. Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons on
Chemlcal Tarlff Cuttlng
lD:2DrlD:35
Protectlon of Groundwater Quallty Pollcy:
Conslderatlon of Executlve Commlttee
Chevron Chemlcal Company;
Envlronmental Management Commlttee

Gary 5. Furman, Amerlcan Cyanamld
Company; Energy Commlttee
Annual Report of the Englneerlng Advlsory
Company; Englneerlng
Advlsory Cosnlttee
11:25711:sn
Roland

New Buslness
12:00 Noon
Adjournment
039291

2291
MINUTES of the three hundred fourth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of the
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon, Inc.: held at the R1t17carlton Hotel (B5117
room 1V7. Laguna Callfornla, on Monday at 3:00 a.m. and Tuesday at
9:00 a.m., September 9 and 10, 1935. There were present:
Dlrectors:
George J. Sella, Jr. 7 Chalrman
Harold A. Sorgentl 7 Vice
Robert A. Roland 7 Presldent
Arthur E. Blggs
Hans a. Kopper
Robert D. Cadleux
Sldney M. Leahy
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Carl w. Lorentzen
Paul v. Chellgren
Robert a. Malott
3. Eugene McBrayer
Harry Corless
Kelth R. McKennon
Ralph s. Cunnlngham
Robert L. Mltchell
Kelth a. Edmondson 117
L. John Pollte
Seymour 5. Preston, III
F. Jack Fltzgerald
Thomas E. Rellly, Jr.
Robert a. Forney
M. Whltson Sadler
Charles E. Stewart
5. Jay Stewart
John v. Johnstone. Jr.
Robert D. Kennedy
Konrad M. Wels
Secretary:
Treasurer:
General Counsel:
Charles w. Van Vlack
Gary c. Herman
Davld 2911
By Invltatlon:
Stuart T. Allen, socMA, E. 1. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Willlam M. Bellamy, Jr., Carblde Cozporatlon
Frank w. Berryman, Chevron Chemlcal Company
Geraldlne v. Cox, CMA
Kenneth E. Davls, Rohm and Haas Company (17
Wells Denyes, Eastman Kodak Company
Garth F. Fort, Monsanto Company
Gary 5. Furman, Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
Edward D. Grlfflth, ARCS Chemlcal Company
Jon c. Holtzman.
E. Hamllton Hurst, Nalco Chemlcal Company
Thomas w. Mooney, The Procter & Gamble Company 127
Ray E. Olsen, Exxon Chemlcal Company
Allan J. Spllner, Rohm and Haas Company
Willlam M. Stover,
Jullane a. Van Egmond, Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
James P. Watklns. Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
117 Monday only
127 Tuesday only
039292

Monday> September 9, 1995
MINUTES LAST MEETINGS
Chalrman Sella called the meetlng to order at 3:00 a.m. The mlnutes of
the June 5 and 6, 1995 Board meetlngs Vere approved as dlstrlbuted.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
A summary of the commlttee's annual report Is attached as Exhibit A.
DINGELL 0N AIR EMISSIONS
Mr. Berryman revlewed the results of the survey on air emlsslons and
emergency response capabllltles and practlces. Key findings of the survey 1ncluded:
A Significant amount of safety equlpment and procedures are 1n place.
The 1ndustry has a Very actlve 1nspectlon and safety revlew program.
Alr emlsslon measurlng apparatus and technlques are In place or
applled near the .process unlt rather than at the fencellne or 1n the
communlty.
There Is substantlal operator 1nput (human factory 1n most of these
monltorlng and safety systems.
The report will be dellvered to Congressman Dlngell later 1n September
followlng completlon and flnal revlew of the contractors' analysls of the data.
There was conslderable dlscusslon concernlng the ultlmate publlc release of the
report and the Indlvldual company's ability to be able to effectlvely respond to
the lssues that mlght be ralsed.
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
The comnlttee's annual report, supplemented Hlth Fort's report.
Is attached as Exhlblt B.
CHEMICAL ASSOCIATIONS
Mr. Wood presented the report c7 of an ad hoc group whlch had
studled the status and programs of the Varlous state chemlcal Industry ass clatlons. Mr. Wood hlghllghted the followlng findings and recommendatlons:
The 19 state groups represent a Significant resource to the 1ndustry.
has done a good job In the past 475 years In nurturlng and
supportlng these groups.
039293

needs Co contlnue co evaluate and 61nd approprlate ways to
utilize the resource chat these groups represent, whlle recognlzlng
chat some states will always be able to do more Chan others.
Member company senlor executlves need to provlde strong, top down
personal and corporate support for these groups.
Some addltlonal expendlture of resources 1n the form of seed
money would be deslrable.
There was conslderable dlscusslon of the relatlve strengths of the state
organlzatlons, the need for addltlonal state groups, and the role of the Board and
the 1nd1v1dual Dlrectors 1n movlng these programs forward and 1n resolvlng any
problems or shortfalls 1n company 1nvolvement. The Vlew was expressed that the
Board and the Indlvldual Dlrectors feel the need to have contlnulng input, as
approprlate, on those areas where thelr actlon. elther 1nd1v1dually or colletk
tlvely, 15 warranted. Mr. Roland 1nd1cated that there would be approprlate
actlon based on the data 1n the report and the Board's request.
RELATIONS COMMITTEE
A summary of the commlttee's annual report 15 attached as Exhibit D.
TAX REFORM LEGISLATION
Mr. Bellamy's report 15 attached as Exhlblt E.
actlvltles 1nclud1ng:
He hlghllghted several
The preparatlon of two tax studles on effectlve tax rates (Price
Waterhouse7 and on the Impact of the Admlnlstratlon's
Completlon of a serles of lssue papers.
A program of contacts Ways and Means Commlttee members.
Followlng presentatlon, there was dlscusslon of how actlve the
Assoclatlon should be on the tax lssue and where 1: should be ranked 1n the
overall 11:: of Assoclatlon prlorltles. Further dlscusslon was deferred to the
Executlve Commlttee meetlng that afternoon.
REAUTHDRIZATIDN
a. Assoclatlon Actlvltles.
Mr. Stover presented an overvlew of
Assoclatlon actlvltles Hlth respect to Superfund reauthorlzatlon.
b. Leglslatlve Status.
Mr. Denyes' report 15 attached as Exhlblt F.
He hlghllghted pendlng actlon on the Senate floor on s. 51 and 1n the House Ways
and Means, and Publlc Works and Transportatlon Commlttees. Followlng presentai
tlon, there was dlscusslon of the senlor executlve asslgnments to Visit key Members
039294

of Congress and she polnts whlch would be made durlng those Visits. Further
dlscusslon of Assoclatlon strategles was deferred to the Executlve Commlttee
meetlng.
REPORT THE
Hr. Roland's report 15 attached as Exhibit G. Dr. Cox presented a
status report on CHEMNET'S whlch has 41 companles Signed on and 1:
Scheduled to begln operatlons 1n October. Br. 2911 reported on the August CHA
conference on 1nsurance and 1:5 flndlngs. He dlscussed posslble avenues of
Involvement other than the formatlon of a captlve Insurance company and requested
1nput from the Board on what dlrectlon the CHA effort should take. Hr. Stover
reported on the pendlng Conference Commlttee actlon regardlng reauthorlzatlon of
the Clean Water Act. Hr. Holtzman descrlbed the upcomlng open meetlng of the
Communlcatlons Comtlttee on CAER. Hr. Roland reported on plans and programs for
the October Chemlcal Industry Conference.
The Board adjourned untll 9:00 a.m.
Tuesday, September 10.
Tuesday, September 10, 1995
"CLEANING FILE
Prlor to the beglnnlng of the meetlng, the recent CHA £11m
entltled "Cleanlng Up" was presented for those Dlrectors who had expressed 1nter7
est.
REPORT THE EXECUTIVE
Chalrman Clark reported on the ltems dlscussed and actlons taken by the
Executlve Commlttee the precedlng day. Clark 1nd1cated that she Execui
tlve Commlttee's rccommendstlons on those subjects comlng before the Board would
be reported followlng presentatlon of each agenda item, but prior to the request
for flnal actlon. He reported that the Executlve Commlttee took the followlng
actlons:
Approved four standlng commlttee and LAG appolntments.
Recommended for Board actlon the Nomlnatlng Commlttee's report.
Approved revlslons to the Speclal Programs Pollcy Comlttee Charter,
Prlnclples and Operatlng Guldellnes.
Recommended for Board actlon the proposed posltlon on a posslble
U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement.
Deferred the proposed posltlon on multllateral trade negotlatlons
on chemlcal tarlff cuttlng, pendlng further revlew by the
Internatlonal Trade Commlttee.
039295

Recommended for Board actlon the proposed posltlon on the protectlon
of groundwater quallty.
Requested the Envlronmental Management Commlttee revlse 1:5
proposal on an Assoclatlon pollcy and program for alr toxlcs.
Dlscussed Superfund reauthorlzatlon strategles and relterated the
Importance of the senlor executlve congresslonal Visits.
Dlscussed the unpact of recent chemlcal 1nc1dents on the
Assoclatlon's actlvltles. 1nclud1ng a request to fund the CAER and
CR: programs. The fundlng request was referred to the Flnance
Commlttee. Other areas reported as unpasted were plant safety, alr
toxlcs and rlsk perceptlon and acceptance.
Dlscussed the tax lssue and 1:5 relatlve priority. Agreed
that 1: should be a high prlorlty issue, but that 1: should
dlvert Assoclatlon resources from Superfund and therefore should be
addressed utlllzlng prlnclpally member company personnel. Requested
that an approprlate actlon plan be prepared.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Mr. Herman reported on the most current flnanclal report avaliable
whlch covered the flrst two months of the flscal year through July 31. In thls
perlod the Assoclatlon had revenue of $11,734,000 and expenses of $1,709,500. As
of September 3, dues had been recelved from all but nine members. 15
contlnulng and no problem 15 antlclpated at thls tune Hlth respect to payment by
those companles.
He also reported that as
the Assoclatlon's budgeted outslde
earller than In addltlon.
support the two tax pollcy studles
1nd1cated by Mr. Berryman on the prevlous day,
consultlng funds are belng commltted somewhat
$55,000 has been transferred 1nternally to
whlch Mr. Bellamy reported on the prevlous day.
REPORT THE NDMINATING COMMITTEE
Reportlng as Chalrman of the Nomlnatlng Commlttee, Mr. Sella presented a
nomlnatlon to £111 a Vacancy on the Board of Dlrectors caused by the reslgnatlon
of Rlchard J. Mahoney of the Monsanto Company.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That F. Jack Fltzgerald, Executlve
Vice Presldent, Chemlcals. Plastlcs and
Flbers, Monsanto Company be elected as a
Dlrector through May 31, 1935.
039295

SPECIAL POLICY COMMITTEE
Mr. Corless presented the annual report of the Speclal Programs Pollcy
Commlttee. He 1nd1cated the speclal programs area 15 generally operatlng well,
although there are several areas that need further attentlon, and that offers
many advantages to those companles deslrlng to establlsh speclal program
tles.
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
A summary of the group's annual report 15 attached as Exhlblt 3.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ISSUES
a. U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement
Mr. Spllner presented a
proposed posltlon on a posslble bllateral free trade agreement between the Unlted
States and Canada. Mr. Clark 1nd1cated that the Executlve Commlttee had recom*
mended the posltlon for Board approval.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the proposed posltlon state*
ment as presented by Mr. Spllner and as
set forth 1n Exhlblt I be approved.
b. MTN Chemlcal Tarlff Cuttlng
Mr. Spllner presented background
on a posltlon statement regardlng posslble across*the*board chemlcal tarlff
reductlons 1n the next round of multllateral trade negotlatlons whlch
posltlon had been presented to the Executlve Commlttee the prevlous day. He
hlghllghted the areas of concern ralsed by the Executlve Commlttee whlch Hill
requlre further revlew.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That wlthout prejudlce the
orlglnal proposal, the Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee revlew the lssue 1n llght
of the concerns ralsed by the Executlve
Commlttee and brlng forward a revlsed
proposal at the October meetlng.
Board members were urged to provlde thelr wrltten comments on the MTN
Issue to the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee as soon as posslble.
QUALITY
Mr. Berryman also presented an overvlew of CMA'S overall groundwater
program and actlvltles whlch 15 attached as Exhlblt J71.
039297

Mr. Berryman presented a proposed posltlon on the protectlon of groundwater quallty whlch had been endorsed, amendments, by the Executlve Commlttee
the prevlous day.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the posltlon on the protetk
tlon of groundwater quallty, as set forth
1n J72, be approved.
ENERGY COMMITTEE
19
The commlttee's annual report, supplemented by report,
15 attached as Exhlblt K.
ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The commlttee's annual report, supplemented by Olsen's report,
15 attached as Exhlblt L. Followlng the report, there was conslderable dlscusslon
of the feaslblllty of sharlng accldent among companles and of provldi
analysls of longstandlng 1ndustry practlces whlch should be revlewed. 1: was
agreed that the Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee and the Health and Safety Commlttee
would examlne these areas for posslble actlon.
REPORT
Mr. Roland reported on the unpact on CMA lssues of the recent 1nc1dents
at Instltute and other locatlons. He Indlcated that there were four major areas
where ha belleved the Assoclatlon needed to focus 1:: efforts to meet the
helghtened concern and potentlal leglslatlve or regulatory actlvlty. These areas
'1ncluded:
Full and aggresslve 1mplementatlon of the CARR and programs
Plant and process safety
Alr toxlcs
Rlsk perceptlon and acceptance.
Vlth respect to the CAER and programs, Mr. Roland reported that a
proposal to staff and fund the CARR and Chemlcal Referral Center programs
for the remalnder of the flscal year had been referred to the Flnance Commlttee
for further revlew prior to the October Executlve Commlttee and Board meetlngs.
respect to the plant safety issue, 1: was agreed that closer
liaison Hlth the Amerlcan Instltute of Chemlcal Englneers (AIChE7 was necessary,
5: was also agreed that the Health and Safety Commlttee and the Englneerlng
Advlsory Commlttee are worklng on expanded actlvltles 1n thls area.
039299

respect Co the rlsk perceptlon and acceptance Issue, Mr. Roland
Indlcated that we would have to look for new and creatlve ways to communlcate
effectlvely Hlth the publlc.
NEW BUSINESS
5. Clean Sltes Inc.
Dr, Forney presented an update on Clean
members to submlt candldates' names to Dr. Fernandez who Is headlng up the s-arch
effort.
b. Tax
Mr. Malott urged that CMA take the lead on key
chemlcal Industry Issues, such as capltal cost recovery and Internatlonal
tlveness, as the tax reform debate accelerates. Mr. Sella Indlcated that
Executlve Commlttee was In agreement that thls was a prlorlty lssue and a
work plan based on a hlgh degree of member company partlclpatlon would we brought
forward.
a. Superfund
The Importance of the asslgned congresslonal Visits
by the Dlrectors was emphaslzed as was the need to coordlnate and on those
of the Assoclatlon's posture 1n the flnal weeks of the Superfund d-nate. The
Importance of maintaining solldarlty In the approved CMA pollcy was
stressed.
e
e
on motlon. duly made and seconded, the meetlng was adjourned at 12 noon.
Charles v. Van Vlack
Corporate Secretary
Chalrman. Board of Dlrectors
039299
A
REPORT THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
TO THE BOARD DIRECTORS
September 9, 1995
executlve summary

The Envlronmental Management Conlttae's 199471995 year once agaln
worklng closely the State Affalrs Commlttee .ddress
accompllshments 15 set forth 1n Qlapter z. A of these
accompllshments 1ncludes >
o The 1n conjunctlon the Government Rel.tlons Commlttee
has actlvely advocated reauthorlsatlon and amendment of the full spectrum of envlrolmmntal leglslatlon ~
Superfund, Resource Conservatlon and Recovery (RCRA),
the 5365 Drlnklng water Act, Clean Alr Act, Clean Water
Act. The end result of the 1994795 efforts was a comprehenslve
amendment of RCRA. efforts resulted 1n
modlflcatlons to the RCRA amandsents to make several requlre*
ments more palatable. We bevel
(17 proposed sound leglslai
tlve alternatlveS; 127 promoted aendaents assure costeffectlve requlrements; and 137 have opposed amendments that
unjustlfled restralnts on 1ndustry -peratlon and
envlronmental beneflts. At thls tune, 15 a
Superfund. and the safe Drlnklng Water Will be enacted
thls year.
program 15 establlsh 1ndustry 1n member company
hazardous waste dlsposal practlces. achleve thls objetr
tlve the conducted for the thlr- year, a survey of
waste dlsposal practlces for 1933, and 15 managlng a
leglslatlve and communlcatlons and as a part of the
full spectrum of solld waste actlvltles.
o Durlng the past year, the escalatlng lssue of alr
toxlcs has taken up an level of actlvlty and has
great significance to the and the 1ndustry 1n the past
on monltorlng and systems for chemlcals and
emergency respons systems .t chenleel 1ndustry plants. In 3
nzeann
rwlated uptctl the EMC h.s establlshed an ad hoe group to
davalop a comprehenslve plan for alr toxlcs. Although Ha
Bra 5:111 1n tha phasas of thls actlvlty CMA'S efforts
hava already begun to results. Wa ware prepared to
could be a serles of Aeglslatlve proposals on alr toxlcs
0 A second area of 1ncreased actlvlty 1: 1n the groundwater
area. The EMC has 1n place for the past year an Ad Hoc
groundwater wor- plan. The of the work plan 15
necessary to groundwater related lssues at both the
Drlnklng wat-r Act does not became the Vehlcle for addresslng
groundwater CMA 15 vlewed by members of Congress,
and as 1n the forefront on groundwater matters and
15 looked vo by other 1ndustry groups to play a leadershlp
role.
exlstlng and recently mended PCRA hazardous waste requlre*
ments. the of the key EMC actlvltles was to conduct three
semln.rs were held 1n conjunctlon the Councll of Chemlcal
on the regulatory lssues, efforts have been
prlu—rlly geared to assure that technlcally sound ACRA regular
we antlclpate a Vary high level of actlvlty of
ACAA Regulatlons Task Group 1n addresslng the new 1mple*
mentlng regulatlons to assure that they are needed, technlcally
