address. scheduled for January 27.
House Sp-aker Jim (DiTxy has 551d that Congress could
Within a month clear leglslatlon reauthorlzlng the Clean Water Act,
whlch Pr-sldent Reagan kllled by pocket Veto last year.
1: 15
commltte-s to 1nvest1gate the Iran arms*contra affalr, 1ntroduce
trade and begln tackllng the Admlnlstratlon's record 51.02
trllllon 1999 budget proposal. The Admlnlstratlon has estlmated the
deflclt .t about $150 bllllon, whlle the Congresslonal Budget Offlce
and analysts have estlmated 1: at closer to $170 bllllon. House
Budget C-mmlttee Willlam B. Gray III has 551d that to
meet goals, Congress may be forced to conslder tax 1ncreases,
the natl-n's tarlff system and 1ncreaslng surcharges on some 1mported
products.
Other that Hill confront the 100th Congress and whlch are
acld leglslatlon, product llablllty, and emphasls on work place
concerns 7 an area where labor shows Signs of greater polltlcal
actlvlty. Trade reform leglslatlon, another prlorlty of the new
Congress, will most llkely be protectlonlst and CMA 15 prepared to
numerous facets of exlstlng trade law.
the current agenda and the usual uncertalntles of a new
sesslon, 1997 Will be another busy and dlfflcult year for the Congress.
CMA

Federal 'egulatory Agencles
1:5 1ntentlon to use Superfund monles to fund
actlvltl-s requlred by Tltle III of the Superfund Amendments and
press have already spoken out agalnst bleedlng the Superfund
to carry out actlvltles requlred by other statutes. Tltle III 1: 1n
fact a s-parate Act from CERCLA, much llke the Clean Alr Act or Clean
under Tltle III. but falled provlde any funds to conduct
year and the Senate almost dld, there are some
import t.x.
negotlate the Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons
Whether can. or whether he will, work Hlth the Congress on an
for the House and Congress and the result may be a Veto battle.
by partlclpants. Not much progress can be announced 1n the
wants n- tarlff cuts on products proved to be import sensltlve.
Attempts to get leglslatlve language to thls effect are underway.
The U.S./Canada negotlatlons toward a free trade arrangement 15
movlng .long though Hlth difficulties constantly appearlng. Canadlan
offlclals are hardipressed by opponents of an agreement. Pressure
grows f-r settlement by late 1n 1997 to beat the Presldent's
chemlcal trade balance 1n the perlod 193071995 has reversed. The
estlmat- 15 for a 7.5 bllllon dollar balance. a 5 percent 1ncrease
over th- year before. Most of the credlt goes to a weaker dollar.
The Int-rnatlonal Affalrs Group has undertaken an effort to
ensure cooperatlon among chemlcal trade assoclatlons
Several forelgn trade assoclatlons have expressed 1nterest
1n maintaining closer contact Hlth and the new effort will
2
CMA 039744
to 1ncrease the IAG'S Visibility as a contact and advocate for
the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry on an 1nternatlonal scale. The
that 1nteractlon Hlth our forelgn counterparts may profltably
be made on the emerglng global lssues affectlng health, safety and the
States
Durlng last two months of 1935, less than 51x state
state g-Vernment actlvltles of major significance to the chemlcal
Wlthout doubt. the most Significant event was the passage of the
37%. Th- 1ndustry coalltlon Hill remaln 1ntact to address the
when th- Governor must publlsh a 115: of affected chemlcals. on
March 1, 1999 the warnlng provlslons go 1nto effect and on November 1,
1999 th- dlscharge prohibitions become effectlve. After a thorough
legal r-Vlew of all posslble optlons, the coalltlon declded to delay
any leg.l attempts to postpone or to alter the law untll after 1::
The CMA State Affalrs Commlttee has establlshed a speclal ad hoc
group :- help develop a response to thls law 1n Callfornla as well as
1:: pot.ntlal spread to other states.
State l-glslatlve actlon will reach a peak 1n the next couple of
months. as all but a couple of states will be 1n sesslon. Tort
Insurance will contlnue be a major issue among the
states 1937. some sort of tort leglslatlon was passed

uphold Pennsylvanla Law, there was an appeal to the
Unlted Supreme Court. Untll the court decldes whether or not
:9 the Cass. there 15 an 1njunctlon agalnst the
of the as 1: applies to manufacturers.
Thanks part to the efforts of the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry
Councll, the Councll of State Governments 1:567 deferred actlon on the
posslbl- adoptlon of the New Jersey Envlronmental Responslblllty
Cleanup Act (ECRA7 as model leglslatlon. However, some form of
model l-glslatlon Will be adopted by 1n 1997 and CMA'S Work
Group c-ntlnues to work towards a favorable model.
plant safety Hill 5135 contlnue to be a major lssue
Managem-nt Work Group has developed an lssue analysls document that
was rec-ntly dlstrlbuted to member companles and state CICS.
3
summ.ry, 1997 should be a Very actlve year for the chemlcal
at the state level.
In the electlons, the publlc
agaln strongly for 1ncreased envlronmental protectlon by state
They also elected a majorlty of Democrats to the extent
that 57 out 99 state houses are now controlled by Democrats. Th1:
Will be an 1ncreaslngly formldable task thls year 1n llght of member
company state affalrs staff reductlons.
Medla
substan-lally accountlng for nearly 12 percent of the news 1n major
newspapers and on network televlslon. Recent Iran/Contra
has 1nterrupted the growth 1n news but 1: remalns a
substan-lal part of coverage.
Over past several years coverage of news was
essent1.lly positive. Buslness was seen as offerlng an alternatlve
problem
settlng a dark background for leglslatlve and regulatory
depletl-n, water contamlnatlon. and charges of poor management have
led the charge. The rush of yeariend takeovers accelerated the level
of 1n coverage.
Ivan and the fallout from the 1nvest1gatlon,
for many Amerlcans deep susplclons about Wall Street and, by
extensl-n, about ethlcs. Even a baby food manufacturer was
charged dllutlon of 1:: product. Several members of the chemlcal
were charged Hlth lllegal product formulatlon.
Add a l.gk of trust 1n the Presldent's handllng of Iran and
have agaln surfaced.
water lssues have been slow to develop 1n the U.s., the
h avy of contamlnatlon problems 1n Swltzerland have ralsed
publlc .wareness. Even a mlnor event 1n thls country could brlng
lssues Congress.
Flnally, even though edltorlal opinion 1n Callfornla newspapers
was opposed to Proposltlon as 129 no, 1 yesy. Popular
press was just as overwhelmlngly 1n support of 1:. The
stars' press caravan organlzed by Jane Fonda offered
and medla events and worked well 1n galnlng popular Votes.
The tactlc Will be less usable 1n other states.
The publlc opinion polls show most Amerlcans today belleve
are more concerned than they used to be about waste
actlon .o solve the problems. By the hlghest record 1n the
4
Reports hlstory an percent of Amerlcans are calllng for
ISSUES STATUS
1. Developments and Response
TSCA Re.uthorlzatlon.
amended, other than the asbestos 1n schools requlrements
adopted 1n the 99th Congress.
Whlle o-her Varlous leglslatlve changes have been proposed 1n
past ye.rs, none have been acted upon by Congress. Expendltures under
the Act have not been reauthorlzed since 1993, as the Agency has
relled the approprlatlons process for fundlng. Consequently,
TSCA re.uthorlzatlon hearlngs may be ahead of us 1n 1937. However, 1:
15 too to predlct whether and when. Congressman Jim Florlo's
-taff has 1nd1cated TSCA Will be on his prlorlty 115:, but his
In June Federal pollcles
Offlce Sclence and Technology Pollcy and Elva federal agencles.
(TSCA7 .nd the Federal Insectlclde Funglclde, and Rodentlclde Act
CMA'S comments stated that adequate authorlty exlsts under
TSCA to control the commerclal uses of bloteChnology: and
recommendatlons for avoiding unreasonable burdens on
aspects of EPA'S approach are overly strlngent and depart from prior
under TSCA.
EPA'S schedule 15 to publlsh proposed rules under the
1n late 1937. The Blotechnology Task Group will contlnue
monltor the development of the proposed rules and comments as
of Informatlon at EPA. Members of the Informatlon
Task Group met EPA staff from the
5
and Resources Management; Pollcy, Plannlng and
the collectlon and management of health and envlronmental
data 1n chemlcals.
IMTG'S for 1mproved management at the
Agency
The EPA Admlnlstrator should mandate an Agencywlde pollcy
1:5 commltment 1nformatlon management and
Agency be created to admlnlster such a pollcy.
A separ.te llne ltem for management should be
created 1n the Agency's budget.
The Will work EPA staft durlng 1997 on the lssues of
of 1nformatlon requests by the Agency; promotlng the use of
TDSCATS (EPA computer data, basey by 1ndustry; sharlng of expertlse
lssues.
Affalrs Task Group (EXATG7 met 1ndustry liaison staff at EPA and
OSHA to dlscuss the chemlcal 1ndustry's communlcatlons Hlth the
and key lssues of unportance to 1ndustry and the agencles.
Testlng Consent Agreements Under TSCA. The flrst meetlng of a
1935, dlscuss procedures governlng testlng consent agreements under
Sectlon 4 of the Toxlc Substances Control ACt (TSCA7 151 Fed. Reg.
23706, seq.. June 30, 19357. The group was conned as a result of
a CMA Dr. John A. Moore, EPA Asslstant Admlnlstrator for
and Toxlc Substances, 1n late October. 1935, on
20 meetlng agreed that 1ndustry and EPA could achleve better
Joint 1ndustry/EPA meetlngs to resolve lssues relevant to
testlng consent agreements will contlnue 1n 1937.
Rlsk Ev.luatlon of New Chemlcals. The Health and Safety
and Reportlng Task Group has developed a
companles to submlt rlsk evaluatlon to EPA Hlth thelr
a
to be held 1n the flrst quarter of 1937,

meetlngs were held 1n December, 1935, 1n Lyon to evaluate
the actlvlty of 200+ chemlcals/exposures. CMA was represented
by Dale w. Matheson. Ph.D.. of Stauffer Chemlcal Company. Rlchard 3.
Makes, -n.u., of Exxon Blamedlcal Sclences was chosen as Dr. Matheson's
In a to the CMA Work Group that has managed
the 1ndustry/IARC 1nterface durlng 1935, Dr. Matheson noted
IARC'S receptlon of 1ndustry posltlons, and adherence to
at whlch the same group of chemlcals Will be evaluated for
Chemlcal Company, has been deslgnated as the Observer at these
Dr. makes of Exxon will again serve as the alternate. The
CMA Haz.rd Assessment Task Group 15 preparlng Drs. Moolenaar and makes
for the meetlngs by assembllng and consolldatlng member company
revlews on speclflc chemlcals.
The pap-r entltled "Revlew and Recommendatlons For the Revlslon
of the ’reamble and Crlterla of the Monographs"
carcln-oenlclty evaluatlons.
System Developmental Toxlclty Evaluatlons Based on Conslderatlons
of and Effect Relatlonshlps," by E. Marshall Johnson, Ph.D.,
of Jeff-rson Medlcal College, has been accepted for publlcatlon 1n
Teratol-gy. CMA'S Health and Safety Commlttee commlssloned the
paper :- help establlsh reasonable, sclentlflc guldellnes for prlorlty
1n developmental toxlclty testlng. The Hazard Assessment Task
Group dlstrlbuted the manuscrlpt to member companles for revlew.
In the 99th Congress, 3.x.
Vote.
1: was out of the full Educatlon and Labor Commlttee
by 2079 1511 the Commlttee Democrats and one Republlcan Votlng for
1: dld reach the House floor 1n part because of our
communlty efforts to educate Members of the House as to the
flaws the measurE, and 1n part because of a crowded endiofisesslon
7
1n fact. has already set up a state plannlng commlsslon and
Hlth Mr. Fred Loy, Presldent of the LCA, servlng as
of the commlsslon.
repres-nts about 50 1ndustry trade groups, recently expanded the role
of 1:5 CAER Task Group. The task group, chalred by was set up to
35515: the CCAE partlclpants 1n CAER thelr
Now the task group has the addltlonal responslblllty of
jolnt ICAE workshops on Tltle III and, as necessary, coordlnatlng an
approach to EPA rulemaklng under thls Act.
our support for the Communlty Awareness and Emergency Response
program as developed by the Chemlcal Manufacturers
Assoc1.tlon. AMA'S declslon to endorse the CAER program was
unanlm-usly adopted durlng a recent meetlng of the board of
dlrect-rs. You and your staff are to be commended for your initiative
and pr-fesslonal 1mplementatlon of thls concept whlch Will be of
well a- the chemlcal 1ndustry. The CAER program becomes even more
Tltle :11 notlflcatlon requlrements."
3. Aspects
offlclals (the Brazlllan chemlcal manufacturers
assoc1.tlon7 have 1nv1ted representatlves to meet them on
3, 1937, 1n Sao Paulo, Brazll. CMA offlclals are also
workln- to arrange meetlngs at that time Hlth local Brazlllan agency
9551:1145. The purpose of these meetlngs 15 dlscuss the CAER and

4. Actlvlty
letters to CMA executlve contacts, company CAER
Th1: program helps communltles partlclpatlng 1n CAERitype
to recelve recognltlon for thelr plannlng efforts. The
conslsts of two awards. The level one award. whlch 15 a
and framed certlflcatE. 15 awarded to communltles that
can they have conned a CAER plannlng commlttee. The level two
award. whlch 15 an oak and bronze plaque, 15 awarded to communltlas
that h.ve completed the CAER mllestones.
9
the attentlon of Members of Congress 1:: use of the new
cleanuv standards at a Superfund slte. EPA 15 attemptlng to provlde
conten: the new law does not allow that flexlblllty. We can expect
that Cmngress will conduct overslght hearlngs on thls issue. Also,
there been reports that EPA may be Superfund money for the
of Tltle III. the sectlon.
and 531d that 1: should recelve fundlng through the
trust money would not be used for Tltle III. CMA sent a letter
31, 19967 to EPA Admlnlstrator Lee Thomas expresslng our
his attempt to use Superfund money to unplement Tltle
111.
the 1mplementatlon process.
313 Notlflcatlon CMA submltted comments on an
EPA dr-ft of a notlflcatlon form to unplement the reportlng
of Sectlon 313 of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauth-rlzatlon. The flnal notlflcatlon Will be the basls for
reportlng requlrements under Tltle 111. CMA'S comments
dld ralse concerns the dlsclosure of estlmate
calcul.tlon5. the need for da concentratlons. trade secret
deslgn.tlon.
3. Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
worksh-p that focuses on the 1mportant new requlrements of the new
be on January 29 and 29, 1937, 1n New Orleans, LA, will address
the clean up provlslons and the new Tltle III Emergency
worksh-p la deslgned provlde an overvlew of the new legal
outllne the new requlrements for companles, and hlghllght
4. and Related Legal Actlvltles
at the flrst meetlng of the ad hoc group on Superfund/lnsurance
the Offlce of General Counsel has ﬁlled amlcus brlefs 1n two
Import-nt Insurance coverage cases. The lssues 1n these cases concern
when "occurrence" occurs for purposes of envlronmental llabllltles
under general liability pollcles and whether
pollcl-s.
11
CMA 039753
pollcl-s. The 1nsurance 1ndustry has apparently conned a cozporatlon
to act as the fundlng source and coordlnatlng body to pursue 1:5
In responSE, the Offlce of General
Counsel 1: seeklng the partlclpatlon of other 1nterested assoclatlons
to respond on behalf of 1nsured companles 1n some of these
cases.
Regul.tory Litigation. The Offlce of General Counsel 1:
In th- Natlonal Contlngency Plan (NC?)
lltlg.tlon, CMA and the other petltloners are meetlng the
Super-und reauthorlzatlon and the forthcomlng revlslon of the NC?
In th. other sult, CMA has challenged the
flnal natural resource damage assessment regulatlons promulgated by
the D-partment of Interlor. Several states and one envlronmental
group have also challenged the regulatlons. The lltlgatlon 1: 1n 3
of a nrleflng schedule by the court.
Implementatlon Actlvltles. As part of 1:5 Superfund
effort, the Offlce of General counsel Will be worklng
Ad Hoc Superfund Counsel Group to pursue ways to 1mprove the
process under Superfund. Th1: group 1ncludes Superfund
from member companles who are 1nterested 1n sharlng concerns
and settlement pollcles and can serve as a resource for
CMA actlvltles 1n these areas.
The wrote an artlcle for the EPA Journal on the
effects of the amended RCRA and the reauthorlzed Superfund
laws “n waste*d15poslng 1ndustr1es.
Hazarwous Waste Management
The Conservatlon and Recovery Act 1: scheduled to be
evalu.te Envlronmental Protectlon Agency's progress.
The RCRA Regulatlons Task Groups contlnue be Very actlve
In for the 100th Congress, both the
and Government Relatlons Task Groups have been dlscusslng
that they belleve need to be addressed 1n the RCRA
of potentlal concern to the chemlcal Industry. These lssues
Hill .e used as a startlng polnt for dlscusslon of posslble
leglslatlve changes.
12
actlvely communlcatlng Hlth members of Congress and 3111
5:36: who will be worklng on RCRA lssues 1n the next Congress.
hearlngs Will be held throughout 1997/99 on Varlous aspects
of
The task group will he conductlng two unportant actlvltles
1n 1937. Flrst, they will conduct a semlnar/brleflng for CMA
and outlook for leglslatlve changes 1n 1997/99.
The -econd task group actlvlty would be a brleflng by CMA for key
3111 staff on RCRA 1mplementatlon and 1:5 unpact on the chemlcal
some of the technlcal problems the chemlcal 1ndustry faces and
how percelve of the 1994 RCRA Amendments.
RCRA overslght hearlngs can be antlclpated throughout 1997/99.
the reauthorlzatlon.
and Congressman Jim Florlo to be the most actlve
The debate will evolve slowly, the overslght hearlngs

Wasne Mlnlmlzatlon Program.
The Resource Conservatlon and
Act (RCRA7 requlres that companles establlsh Voluntary waste
In RCRA 1: scheduled to be reauthorlzed. At that tune.
conslder leglslatlng mandatory waste reductlon requlrements.
member companles have a Welliestabllshed waste
waste mlnlmlzatlon work group 15 developlng a plan for
member companles, the Congress and EPA, and the
