Exhlblt 3
REPORT TO BOARD
OCTOBER
1975
In an to lllustrate to you the relatlve unportance of
matters :h.: are now pendlng pertaining to 1nternatlonal trade,
Offlce of Trade Representatlve
The occaslun was
a plenary 1n Washlngton some two weeks ago for a group
of Sector Advlsory commlttees (or IsAcy. Ambassador
pent told that 1mports 1nto thls country 1n 1975 are expecti
ed to be u, 20% over those of 1975, whlle exports Will be up
dollars.
Imports of petroleum products 1n the U.S.A.
1973 were at 7 bllllon dollars.
Th1: year are
expected t- reach 32 bllllon dollars.
Gentlemen. the need for 1ndustry support 1n the 1nternatlonal
trade area has never been as great as 1: 15 now.
dustry 1: than the correspondlng cost 1n the Common Market
but 1: expected to be equal to that of the common
Market 1n .nout four years. Your Internatlonal Trade commlttee
51 trade a must.
I am advls-d that the subject of trade dld not appear 1n the
those subj-cts of the greatest concern to them accordlng to a
However. does appear that we could have
longirange problems 1n our economy, unless 1nternatlonal trade
thls 1n mind, I would now llke to give you an
“utllne of what I hope to cover 1n the next 10 to 12 mlnutes.
First, 1 to spend about 3 mlnutes on the status of the
'T negot1.tlons.
The maln of my presentatlon to you
1 last ab-ut a mlnutes, and thls 15 devoted to the work
t 15 on 1n ISACiS (Chemlcalsy.
m> a brlef comment concernlng DCITA (Offlce of chemlcal
1ndustry Irade .
s
03709-
In
2
In regard to GATT, I am aware that Dr. Dawson has pretty much
kept you to date 1n thls area.
The report of these
the tarlf- formula, whlch was flrst tabled by the U.S.A., dlfi
far: from the one that the common Market brought out 1n.July.
The formula tabled by the v. 5. suggests that all tarlffs
above be cut by 50% (the maxlmum allowed by the Trade
and those below 5.7% by a formula of cuts between
The
EC formul. proposes tarlffs would be cut by thelr own amount, a
process would be repeated four tunes.
That 15 .. say, a
tarlff of 50% would 1n1tlally be cut 50%, the result a
four more tunes would mean an ultlmate
tarlff of 13%.
The Verslon tends to embrace more
1n that 1: cuts the hlgher dutles more than our
formula dues.
we remaln crltlcal of the EC proposal 1n that 1: speclflcally
The Market 5:111 hopes
av rage r-ductlon of the current dutles of about 32% and that
15 before any exceptlons are taken 1nto account.
I underst-nd
that Mr. durlng Visit to the Summlt Meetlng 1n Puerto
Rcco stat-d that the v. 5. should shoot for a target cut of 35a
Since
Mr. Ford referrlng to a cut after exceptlons are taken 1nto
account, can see thls leaves a Wide gap for our negotlators
to close.
A5 to th. timing of the flnal declslon on the tarlff formula,
you are .ware that the Swedes have recently settled thelr else?
tlons.
Soon 1: be the West and the Japanese. At
the flrs- of thls comlng year, there Will be a replacement of
eight of the nine EC Mlnlsters 1n Brussels. All of cou*
pled our own electlons 1n November. leads your Commlttee
to the that not only will there be an agreement on
before e.rly to m1d71977 at best.
0370.5
I

contlnues, however, to let us know that thlngs are
1ndeed 1n Geneva Varlous Multllateral Trade
tlon subgroups at work hammerlng out prellmlnary detalls.
These suwgroups have been meetlng Hlth our tradlng partners 1n
an to come to a mutual understandlng on how to treat
supply“ wovernment procurement, standards and codes, GATT re*
form. the Very unportant subject of nonitarlff barrlers.
Due to a Wide Varlety of nonitarlff barrlers currently employ?
ed, 1: thought by many that the settlement of thls matter 15
ISACiS:
51x of whom are from the MCA Internatlonal Trade Com?
mlttEE, .re provldlng v. s. chemlcal 1ndustry overvlews on how
we wlsh matters to be handled when negotlatlons do flnally
Th1: me 1nto the subject of how ISACiS 15 progresslng. At
Offlce .5 Speclal Trade Representatlve, that ISACiS was better
and better organlzed than any of the remalnlng 25 ISACS.
Th1: pr-lse by the government 15 not meant to 1mply that we netk
expect to do better 1n the negotlatlons than we dld 1n
reason -or government to eventually polnt the flnger at our
dustry .nd tell us that we falled 1n dolng our homework.
There 5-111 remalns an 1nadequate twoiway flow of
1n large and complex government prlvate sector commlttee
structu-es. At the same tune, 1: 15 agreed that they are tuna?
tlonlng better than they were at the start.
to
tell us that they are determlned to further unprove the ISAC
system .nd that the outcome of the negotlatlons will depend, to
a great extent. on just how well we have prepared the Geneva
negotla-ors, whlch 1n turn. 15 saylng just how well the ISAC

na7ue7

Due to complexlty of the chemlcal 1ndustry, we were forced
The
ISACiS 1: expected to meet four tunes thls year, whlle
the will meet at least that many tunes. At the pre*
chemlcal products would be most sensltlve to tarlff cuts.
Th1:
15 the -xceptlons 115:.
There one key area that I SDllClt
that 1n the Eleld of 1norgan1c products.
More 1nto
that declslons by ISACiS members are belng made.
Th1:
input, as 1: pertalns sensltlvlty, should be made dlrectly
to the Department of Commerce, and the approprlate address 15
glven the wrltten report of these remarks.
Consultatlon Pollcy Staff, Department of Commerce,
u. c.
20230
As works thls exceptlons 115: and brlngs 1: a
we are 1nformed by government that our next step
will one of belng certaln that we can ultlmately provlde the
necess-ry justlflcatlon for our declslons.
By of a
we are preparing ourselves to address these questlons
from g-Vernment. We are also establlshlng priorities Hlthln the
xceptl-ns 115: 1tself.
Thus. crltlcal area for our
try wlll probably reslde 1n the rules for exceptlon",
In to thls work on exceptlons, we contlnue to press
to an ad Valorem basis. the selectlon of the base year
belng the crltlcal matter.
Some year has to be agreed
upon order provlde a startlng polnt for the calculatlon
of :n- value of the concesslons to be negotlated.
Th1: more
for the chemlcal 1ndustry than perhaps any other due
to fact that we have such a large number of speclflc and
over last several years.


F1nally" I Wish to report that Dr. Dawson, 1n the capaclty of
1n New York Clty.
Dr. lawson has restructured thls
oar can be sure of addresslng all agencles of our
Hlth unlform Volce.
In to MCA; socMA,
5px, and Varlous members of ISACiS Will all be brought together
Th1: organlzatlon 15 not restrlcti
ed ._ 15 the ISAC program 1n that twoiway communlcatlon 15 pos*
51b1-.
One ltem that was not 1ncluded 1n my outllne that may be of
ter-st to you. Gentlemen, deals Hlth a recent survey sent to
the chemlcal 1ndustry by the Stanford Research Instltute
1n Hlth the v. 5. Department of Labor.
Due to the
that the survey called for, an overwhelmlng number of
v. chemlcal companles have decllned to respond.
concluslon, Within the next 12 months. there 15 a reasonable
Th-re contlnues be a serlous need for
av.1lable opportunltles.
s=- Dave Dawson out there amongst you, and he has agreed to
me answer any questlons.
partners.
