CMA
CMA 039193
G
0F THE 0F
JON c. HDLTZMAN
the actlve p.rt1c1patlon of offlcers and a number of board
members the communlcatlon program, 1n1tlated two months ago, has
moved 1nto g-ar. That effort will contlnue over the next several months
as we expand our of contacts to 1nclude reglonal medla.
The contacts dlscusslons that are not llmlted to the Superfund
issue but brlng Clean Sltes, Inc., general 1ndustry attltudes of cooperatlon
agreement Hlth many of the polnts we ralse.
beglnnlng to come 1n more balanced reportlng. But there 15 5:111 a long way
NEW RESOURCES; members of member company staffs Hlth speclal expertlse
1n Superfund have been recrulted to either accompany board members or
dlrectly handle Hlth reglonal news medla. All have recelved speclal
Gene Tom Hellman, Allled; Lee Nuts, Dow; Mlke Plerle, Monsanto;
and Julle Cyanamld.
Intervlews have conducted at the followlng publlcatlons:
Fernandez and New York Tunes (1ntervlew
edltorlal wrlter; Fernandez); Washlngton Post (1ntervlews Hlth edltorlal
Hrlter and Fernandez and Congresslonal Quarterly
Los Herald Examlner (Street).
Chemlcal Reporter; Chemlcal Week; Journal of Commerce;
Chemlcal News; Hazardous Waste Report; Toxlc Materlals
News; Envlronment Reporter; Inslde EPA; Industry Week; Industrlal
Chemlcal News and CPI Purchaslng.
e
Brleflngs are for the followlng publlcatlons:
(Holmer. 5e1137
e
Natlonal journal, Newsweek, L.A. Tunes, Boston Globe, Chlcago
SuniTlmes, Atlant. Journal, etc. Schedullng 15 contlnulng.

CMA 039194

at 25 states. been dlstrlbuted to nearly
programs will be from the TV pieces
1nd1v1dually
znn statlons. The
reported. (Radlo
In addltlon. 2 programs on Superfund lssues have been
buted natlonally 2400 statlons. A program was developed
and dlstrlbuted hazardous waste generated and dlsposed of by
consumers.
WASTE HANDLING AN- DISPOSAL: has begun to "scout" company and EPA
Natlonal Prlorlty L15: sltes for shootlng locatlons for the new waste slte
cleanup £11m. The £11m will document progress on slte cleanup andiwlll be
The department 15 coordlnatlng plannlng actlvltles for a telenews conference
(scheduled for 317 on establlshment of Clean Sltes Inc. and asslstlng 1n
coordlnatlon of actlvltles for the press conference on announcement of
csx.
COMMERCIAL 0F CHEMICALS: Five programs were dlstrlbuted
durlng the perlod on rlsks Vs. beneflts; the 1mportance of household
chemlcals and 3 programs on EDB.
productlon and (from NashvlllE, slte of the Conference7 on the
were produced and dlstrlbuted on these lssues. In addltlon, the Department
Marshvllle, N.C. Aprll. Among other thlngs, the Department dlstrlbuted,
by satellltE, fa news release on (whlch was used by at least
3 North Carollna In addltlon, a TV newsfeature was produced and
dlstrlbuted the perlod on new cargo reservatlon laws and thelr effect
A speclal program for medla tour spokespersons was
conducted.
I
1
I



I
lssued 1:5 thlrd of consumer orlented programs on the 1mportance of
chemlcals, thelr neneflts and thelr proper use and safety.
The serles 15 1nhouse at CMA and dlstrlbuted to radlo
statlons.
a phenomlnal partlclpatlon. In addltlon the statlons the materlal also
goes to 400 home extenslon economlsts. many of whom wrlte newsletters or
newspaper columns.
1
I
1
CMA 039195

1
*3Members a sample of the program should Hrlte Llnda Edwards,
communlcatlons dqoartment.
REGIONAL
The raw data has come 1n from the survey of the medla made after the
Loulslana Chemlc.l Assoclatlon made 1:: serles of medla tours 1n late
1933. The data c-mpared attltudes surveyed about a year earller. The
results are unpr-sslve.
a
40 percent of th. mpdla found the relatlonshlp between the chemlcal
1ndustry and the medla was "excellent" or "good" 1n 1934, compared
to 23 percent 1n 1933.
e
an percent rated the 1ndustry "excellent" or "good" at provldlng
useful 1nformatlon 1n 1934, compared to 54 percent 1n 1933.
e
77 percent rated the 1ndustry "excellent" or "good" at provldlng
comprehenslve 1n 1934, compared to 19 percent 1n 1933.
e
71 percent rated the 1ndustry "excellent" or "good" at provldlng
accurate 1n 1934, compared to 55 percent 1n 1933.
The medla also r.ted the 1ndustry slgnlflcantly hlgher 1n thelr percepi
A soberlng fact: the second survey, conducted a year later, found that
25 percent of reporters and edltors orlglnally surveyed had moved on to
Book 1: 1n the h.nds of CMA executlve contacts and key 1ndustry government
on a quarterly unless there 15 a rapldly changlng lssue whlch demands
reproduce and dl-trlbute the materlal 1nternally!
actlon. Speclal .ttentlon was devoted to groundwater, chemophobla, balani
press repor-lng and lssues whlch mlght follow hazardous waste management
as medla focus 9. attentlon.
229 schools. a permanent part of thelr llbrary. Projectlon: more
than sun by July 31.
CMA
CMA 039195
h
THE DI'ECTDR 0F GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. sTovE-
NATIONAL
KEY CHEMICAL TAX ISSUES IN DEFICIT REDUCTION
TAX CONFERENCE
Followlng the Ea-ter Congresslonal recess, the Senate attempted to
complete the exp-ndlture reductlon provlslons of 3.x. 2153, the Federal
Boat Safety Act .nd the focus for the Senate's deflclt reductlon budget
are of great the chemlcal 1ndustry:
o
the Admlnlstratl-n's Forelgn Sales Corporatlon (FSC7 provlslons to
provlde a alternatlve to replace the Domestlc Interi
natlonal Sales C-zporatlon provlslon of the Internal Revenue
Code;
0
a twoiyear of the moratorlum on Treasury Regulatlons
development forelgn source 1ncome;
o
provlslons mowlfy and to make permanent the research and
experlmentatlon credlt.
1ndustry, there other 1mportant provlslons 1n thls leglslatlon. For
example, both House and Senate would impose much tlghter control
1ncome tax would be allowed untll performance" occurs.
The Senate .159 contalns an electlon to allow a less restrlctlve
method 1n the of the reclamatlon and costs of mines and 1n the
Superfund Th1: provlslon could be of cruclal 1mportance to the
The total flscal 1mpact of thls leglslatlon on the chemlcal 1ndustry
15 dlfflcult However, the value of the provlslons for the
for allocatlng research and development expenses to forelgn 1ncome,
and to modlfy to make permanent the research and experlmentatlon tax
credlt are estlm-ted to exceed $3 bllllon. Because of the many provlslons
1n thls leglslatlon that would affect corporate actlvltles, CMA
carefully and to contact House and Senate conferees about thelr concerns.
CMA 15 worklng allled trade assoclatlons and
Senate to the Forelgn Sales Cozporatlon and to extend the
moratorlum on 5951 research and development allocatlon regulatlons.
CMA 039197

PATENT RESTIRATIDN
For almost three and a half years, has partlclpated 1n 3
Washlngton Coalltlon under the leadershlp of the
Manufacturers to support passage of the Patent Tenn
Restoratlon Act. Th1: unportant leglslatlon would extend patent life on
products that run: undergo prolonged perlods of governmentimandated testlng
and revlew. The -rgan11ed opposltlon to thls leglslatlon has focused on
the unpact the l-glslatlon would have on the generlc drug 1ndustry.
To resolve thls npposltlon and unpasse, PMA earller thls year proposed
a twoitltle that would contaln both patent term restoratlon and
abbrevlated new provlslons (that would enable generlc drug
manufacturers :- enter the market more easlly than under the present
Waxman's staff unable to reduce thls agreement 1n prlnclple to
1ntroduced 3.x. the Agrlcultural Patent Reform Act. Th1: leglsi
chemlcals to premanufacture notlflcatlon under TSCA. on May 3,
behalf of CMA. and the Annual Health Instltute.
support passage .5 3.x. 5529, and, 1n addltlon, will cooperate PMA :9
support a more 15 acceptable compromlse language can be
ENERGY AND SUPPLIES:
NATURAL GAS LEGISLATION
The House and Commerce Commlttee reported on Aprll 12 a natural
gas deslgned to put a cap on natural gas prices untll 1997
Major 1nclude a freeze on above market prices untll January
1, 1935, forced renegotlatlon of certaln hlghiprlced gas and a twoiyear
Calling on price escalators 1n gas contracts unless the
contracts are r-negotlated. Take*oripay obllgatlons are llmlted to flfty
percent of Volumes, minimum between pipelines and
dlstrlbutors ar- ellmlnated and a prudency standard for pipelines
purchaslng gas establlshed. 3.x. 4277 was sponsored by Representatlves
(RrILrlS). and Ihomas J. Tauke ‘R71A727 and represents a dramatlc
turnaround from the earller subcommlttee reported Verslon.
The objectlve o- the 22 members supportlng 3.x. 4277 was to report a
qulckly wl-hout amendments. Commltments were obtalned by the
to support the and all amendments were defeated. Proponents of
CMA 039199
decontrol and Democrats have labeled the a
the leglslatlon would create. The 1: 51mllar 1n many respects to
earller Gas Assoclatlon and Cltlzens Labor Energy Coalltlon
supported
the reported wlthout amendment, commltments may not
hold and consld-rable debate could occur 1n the Rules Commlttee and on the
House floor. may not be commltted the as drafted,
but he has the prospects reasonable for gettlng a Vote from the
ﬁlled and a has not yet been requested.
The Rules could report the 1n such a way that
all Sides 1n th- controversy an opportunlty for amendments or substltute
Verslons. The Majorlty Leader does not support the drafted
1:: aspects. on the other hand, the Speaker of the House
has 1nd1cated support for an even more restrlctlve Verslon.
to 3.x. 4277 every effort will be made to prevent passage of the
punitive leglsl.tlon 1n 1:: present CMA has stated the status quo 15
House floor.
that 3.x. 4277 be amended to lessen the negatlve unpact of price
caps and freeze-. The Admlnlstratlon has also reglstered 1:5 opposltlon
and predlcted 15 the were enacted, new gas productlon would be
dlscouraged and a serlous gas shortage could be created once the current
glut 15 used Energy Secretary Donald P. Hodel, together Hlth
Republlcan of the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee, 1: expected
to seek changes 1n the leglslatlon.
Actlvlty 1n the House 15 belng closely watched by a Coalltlon of
Senators who trylng to develop a compromlse Senate Energy
negotlatlng The House reported runs counter to many of the
prlnclples suppurted by the Senate leadershlp and the recent proposal under
dlscusslon. but passage of a House could return natural gas
leglslatlon to Senate floor. A serles of "qulckiflx" natural gas
Proponents of could also flllbuster any effort to pass a
51mllar to the House Verslon.
TRADE REMEDIES
The House Ways .nd Means Commlttee reported out the Trade Remedles
Reform Act of 1-94 the Glbbons 1n early Aprll. 1: 1:
as reported, essentlally the same as the subcommlttee Verslon the
only change the deletlon of the sectlon deallng
nonimarket econ-my 1mports. The Senate Flnance Commltte has held hearlngs
CMA 039199

1
on a to thls iSSuE, but no markup 15 currently scheduled.
authorlty to countervalllng dutles agalnst unported materlal
manufactured fr-m raw materlals prlced below export or falr market Values.
Th1: same sectl-n of the establlshes a mechanlsm to deal Hlth 1ndustry
dumplng.
The 15 opposed to these provlslons and attempted
unsuccessfully strlke them at the commlttee markup. CMA member
causlng the Executlve Commlttee to take no posltlon on the Glbbons

Whlle no floor -ctlon 15 currently planned on the Glbbons 1n the
the were :- pass both Houses of Congress, there 15 wldespread bellef
that the Presld-nt would Veto 1:.
posslble revlsl-ns the trade remedy laws focuslng on Sectlons 201, 232,
301 and 332 of Trade Act.
NATIONAL EcoNoMIc
U.S./CANADA TRADE AGREEMENT
a free trade for 51x 1ndustrlal sectors 1nclud1ng
petrochemlcals. The Canadlan Chemlcal Producers Assoclatlon has
coordlnated 1:: government 1n prellmlnary efforts precedlng actual
negotlatlons. has also asked the government for lower natural gas
prices to make 1ndustry more competitive and the free trade agreement
more beneflclal. A welliwrltten report on thls lssue has been publlshed by
Toronto. The petrochesllcals chosen by the Canadlans be 1ncluded
1n the free trade agreement were provlded at that meetlng, 1: was
the free proposal would be welcomed.
A survey questlonnalre was presented to the Executlve Commlttee on
Tuesday, May a was deslgned provlde the requested reactlon. The
referred the m.tter back to the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee for further
study.
U.S./ISRAEL TRADE AGREEMENT
Representatlve Thomas J. Downey 1ntroduced a 53777
1n Aprll whlch, 15 passed, would authorlze the Unlted States to enter 1nto
duty free trad. betwe n the two natlons. Mr. Downey's has yet to
undergo 1n the House, and none are scheduled.
CMA

Although Senat-r John Danforth had 1ntentlon" of 1ntroduc1ng a
companlon 1n the SenatE, he has Since declded 1nstead to attach the
Downey as an amendment to some as yet unannounced The Senate
Flnance Commlt-ee held an executlve sesslon on May 10 to conslder the
concept of a U.S./Israel free trade arrangement. Although a motlon by
1ndustry from authorlty falled, v.5. Trade Representatlve
Willlam Brock on record as offerlng assurances that all due
conslderatlon be given to the concerns of the 1ndustry.
conductlng an (InV. 33271907 1nto the probable economlc
hearlngs occur-ed 1n Aprll, the report on the 1nvest1gatlon 15 not due to
be released May an. The reports that no other chemlcal sector
has expressed over the prospects of a U.S./Israel free trade
agreement.
In addltlon to the concerns of the bromlne segment of the chemlcal
1ndustry over issue, the proposed U.S./Israel free trade arrangement
ralses an addl-lonal concern, especlally for the petrochemlcal sector. The
government of 'audl Arabla has 1nformed the v.5. Trade Representatlve that
1: expects the same free trade agreement glven Israel.
RECIPRDCITY LEIISLATIDN
The Reclprocal Trade and Investment Act of 1994 contlnues to be
stalled 1n the Congress. 1: 1n favor of the enactment of the b111,
one of the posltlve pieces of trade leglslatlon before the Congress.
passed by the Senate twlce durlng thls Congress. 1: has been on the
Senate for conslderatlon Since February, but contlnues to be
bumped down 1n prlorlty due largely to the efforts of organlsed labor.
would companles to move thelr manufacturlng facilities overseas
causlng a loss of jobs.
CMA contlnues .9 plan an actlve role 1n the Coalltlon seeklng
passage of leglslatlon.
The System of Preferences (Gs?) provldes for dutyifree
treatment for 1nto the Unlted states of certaln artlcles, 1nclud1ng
chemlcals, 1n developlng countrles. Chemlcal unports under
thls dutyifree system totaled $400 million 1n 1932. Some of these cause
been 1n effect Since 1976, 15 due to explre 1n January 1935, and must
Either be or extended by thls Congress 15 1: 15 contlnue.
The offered a proposal for the program's renewal 15. 17197
whlch was 1ntr-duced 1n the last sesslon of Congress by Senator John
Danforth by request. Th1: was recently reported out by the
CMA 039201
CMA'S Myron T. Fovedux testlfled before the Senate Flnance Commlttee's
Internatlonal Subcommlttee on January 27 on behalf of both CMA and
the Synthetlc mrganlc Chemlcals Manufacturers Assoclatlon 1n favor
recommended. asp hearlngs were held on February a and 9 by the
Although the asp renewal proposal has not been
1ntroduced 1n HouSE, Representatlve Pease has 1ntroduced a
513.7 reauthorlze the program. 1: requlres adherence to
numerous falr law prlnclples as a condltlon for asp eligibility. 1:
also contalns = system for permanently removlng countrles from eligibility,
one of CMA'S for asp renewal. CMA'S Internatlonal Trade
language for 1n the asp renewal
PRODUCT
HAZARDOUS MATE'IALS TRANSPORTATION
hearlngs have been held 1n both the Senate Commerce
Subcommlttee Surface Transportatlon and the House Publlc works and
Transportatlon Commlttee on the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act
Testlm-ny was recelved from a Varlety of publlc and prlvate sector
repres seeklng amendments to the BMTA. Desplte the efforts of the
wlthout leglslatlve amendments will be passed 1n thls sesslon
of Congress.
of opinion exlst over the roles of federal, state and
Dlspute also on the need for and amount of fundlng for a natlonal
ﬁes, system 5.. carrlers, shlppers and Contalner manufacturers 1n exchange
address many .5 the lssues pendlng at the Department of Transportatlon
determlne the for transporters notlfy munlclpalltles before trans*
portlng materlals through them, and to evaluate federal emergency
of hazardous regulatlon. Internal revlew also focuses on the
PRODUCT
Concern has expressed by coalltlons among the alumlnum, chemlcal,
R
R311

rallroad Captlve trafflc has been partlcularly unpasted by the
monopollstlc of the rallroads. Issue areas under dlscusslon 1nclude
the revenue of rallroads, market domlnance and praicompetltlve
features.
Senator John Ianforth 15 clrculatlng draft language for a Jolnt
Congresslonal Resolutlon that would deal Hlth how the Interstate Commerce
Commlsslon 15 unplementlng the staggers R311 Act of 1980. The
be 1ntroduced Hlthln two weeks and hearlngs are expected to
be scheduled. The Joint Resolutlon would have the effect of law 15 passed
CMA 15 suppor-lng the 1ntroductlon of the Jolnt Resolutlon dlrectlng
papers and language has been submltted Congresslonal staff and
ENERGY AME SUPPLIESi
EMERGENCY PRE'AREDNESS LEGISLATION
The Senate and Natural Resources Commlttee began markup of
s. 1579 by James A. McClure 1: the markup Vehlcle.
energy have been 1ntroduced by Senators 3111 Bradley and
Dave
The markup 1: scheduled to contlnue on May 15, 23 and posslbly
beyond that. chances of reportlng out a are uncertaln due to
conslderable Debate contlnues over the federal government's
proper role a petroleum shortfall. Other lssues of concern 1nclude
preemptlon of state laws and antltrust and confllct of 1nterest exemptlons
energy
Many are belng prepared and are expected to 1nclude standby
the poor and nthers llkely to suffer durlng an 011 shortage. The
has suggested changes to the McClure 1n support of
approprlate wlthout price and allocatlon authorlty. In 1991
Presldent vetoed a standby petroleum allocatlon
CMA supports baslc free market approach of the McClure and
several parts of the Bradley The Viewpoint 15, however, that
soclal for the economlcally dlsadvantaged should not be mlxed Hlth
natlonal pollcy. The Durenberger 1: not supported by the
COMMERCIAL 0F CHEMICALS;
TSCA
In the Davld Durenberger's subcommlttee staff contlnues
CMA 039203
The flrst piece should be avaliable 1n the next month, and
sectlon 4 rule process, percelved as too slow and unwleldy under
present 127 a PMN test data requlrement, on a rebuttable
presumptlon b-sls, for new chemlcals; an attempt to reduce clalms for
confldentlal alleged to be excesslve under present
law; and 147 means of gettlng CPA to make greater use of sectlon a
In response :- these proposals, we have shared Senate staff the
o
Negotlated agreements have unproved the sectlon 4 process,
and ought to .e recognlzed 1n the law.
0
greater assur.nces' as the adequacy of the PMN revlew, 1n
essenCE. the would evaluate the potentlal human health
condltlons of manufacture. use and exposure.
0
be used at the approprlate tune to 1mprove the outcome of Senate and
House efforts to amend TSCA. In the HouSE, Mr. Florlo's to amend TSCA
43047 1: 1n 3 holdlng pattern, pendlng developments on Superfund
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH:
The Senate L.-or Subcosralttee hearlng Aprll 23 focused on
occupatlonal dlsease 1n general, and asbestos 1n partlcular. The hearlng
was the of a serles that Will be contlnulng through the months of May
protect work-rs from asbestos. and other deadly substances, 3 publlc health
tragedy. The usual grlm statlstlcs were reported by a colleague of
Dr. Sellcoff's. such as the 350,000 asbest057related deaths to data. and he
Flnally, a R.nd study reports that asbestos Vlctlms recelve only 1/3 of the
dollars paid out, whlle 2/3 goes for legal expenses.
Noteworthy h-wever, was the way 1n whlch Don buckles (Rioky
framed the by asklng: flrst, 15 there a natlonal asbestos Crisis,
and second, so, what should be done about 1:? Balance was brought to
the hearlng, whlch cast some doubt on the assumptlon that asbestos 15 a
natlonal crl-ls. Two emlnent medlcal research doctors made a strong case
compensatlng asbestos Victims. Fred Baron, a leadlng attorney for asbestos
Victims, and actlve 1n the Trlal Lawyers Assoclatlon, conceded there 15 no
current lltl-atlon Crisis, and our tort system has evolved rapldly and
responslblly to deal asbestos Victims. (He blames 1n5urance companles
CMA 039204

as the causa of problems, but says that may soon be solved through
the group's proposed solutlon.) He concluded by saylng, "x
belleve 1: be unwlsE, at thls tune. to conslder a leglslatlve
of the beneflt dellvery mechanlsm now 1n effect."
whlle Chalrm.n Nlckles' hearlng 1n1tlally focused on asbestos, we are
watchlng clo-ely for any broadenlng to other substances/dlseases. In
partlcular. are watchlng Senator Quayle's effort to 61nd a sponsor for
the asbestos manufaeturers/users llmlted to asbestos.
and an as ye: unseen proposal by Senator Kennedy not llmlted to asbestos.
Congressman nlller's 31757 remalns status quo 1n the House.
edition of reauthorlzatlon leglslatlon, 3.x. 564D. Florlo's
Commlttee. Tue Florlo 1: 5:111 unacceptable, but has a few changes
such as for Elva years, an amendment to CERCLA. no
House, a few 1nfluentlal House Democratlc commlttee chalrmen and
key House House Speaker "Tip" D'Nelll has told the Democrats
he wants the Superfund work completed 1n the commlttees and ready for floor
force thls 1nto the natlonal llmellght to make 1: a Presldentlal
Commlttee. R.e, who 15 a co*sponsor of Florlo's b111, Will not resume the
Superfund he.r1ngs untll June, and will testlfy at these hearlngs.
June.
CMA to pursue a Very aggresslve lobbylng effort almed at the
key members .5 these three House Commlttees. The CMA Grassroots effort 1:
Commlttees. 15 worklng on the lssues of fundlng level and mechanlsm,
other key
hearlngs 1n Senate Envlronment and Publlc works Commlttee. CMA
testlfled May 15, and Mr. Edwln Holmer, Presldent of Exxon Chemlcal
Cozporatlon .nd Chalrman of CMA'S Board of Dlrectors, presented the
CMA 039205

1
o
the annual of fundlng whlch the Superfund needs and EPA
0
jolnt and 5.Veral llablllty;
o
the 1mpact of a substantlal 1ncrease 1n the feedstock
taxi
o
the of a waste*end tax;
0
o
Vlctlms
leglslatlon 1n June.
postponed untll after the Congresslonal Memorlal Day recess. Since
the wa- orlglnally reported from the Envlronment and Publlc Works
Commlttee a number of controverslal amendments have surfaced whlch would
shortened Cmngresslonal calendar due to the upcomlng Democratlc and
Republlcan the Senate leadershlp apparently 15 unwllllng
The more amendments whlch have delayed conslderatlon of
subject to regulatlons. There are some 15 7 20 other amendments to
whlch together would requlre substantlal tune to conslder.
CMA'S contlnue be geared toward adoptlon of a reasonable
surface amendment. The latest draft surface
amendment most of the major provlslons endorsed by CMA.
However. ponds or ponds 1n whlch no treatment 15 occurlng
would not exempted from the double llner requlrement. CMA has
approached Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee staff
be However. 1: does not appear as though these ponds Will be
covered 1n flnal Verslon of the Commlttee surface
amendment.
(Rina) that up 550 million of the Superfund 15 to perform
health of populatlons surroundlng landfllls and surface
contlnues be revlewed by CMA'S technlcal staff. will
should they be deemed necessary.
CMA 039205

CLEAN WATER ACT
Subcommltte- on May 1
10. The 3.x. 3232, was 1ntroduced by Commlttee
last summer, amended 1n the Water Resources
and the Commlttee on May 10.
3.x. 3292 c-ntalns few Significant over the exlstlng
Clean Act, for the chemlcal 1ndustry. The Best Avallable Technology
The Pretreatment Study provlslon 1n the could yleld good
program.
There are adverse amendments 1n the Commltteejoassed b111,
1nclud1ng ’ostiEAT requlrements, EPA admlnlstratlve clvll penaltles
authorlty, and felony sanctlons.
reflected priorities for unprovement 1n the However,
baslcally the llne on his House floor actlon on 3.x. 3292
depends up-n the llmlted time remalnlng on the House calendar.
In the Sen.tE, the Commlttee approved 5. 431 and s. 2005,
provldlng Clean Water Act amendments, could be consldered anytlme. The
passage of a House commlttee may provlde unpetus for Senate floor
SAFE WATER ACT (SEWAV
Senator b111, s. 2549, to reauthorlze the Safe Drlnklng
Water Act, was 1ntroduced on May a. The Senate Subcommlttee on Toxlc
Substances and Envlronmental Overslghts held a one day hearlng on May 14.
CMA Hill sometlme 1n early June.
Senator appears to be a substantlal 1mprovement
over the Verslon of the Safe Drlnklng Water Act, 3.x. The
Senate does not change the deflnltlon of a "drlnklng water source" nor
as does House Although the contalns language 1n 1:: goals
and pollcy sectlon whlch refers to the "protectlon of groundwater sources
the groundwater lssue should be separate from any Safe
Drlnklng W.ter Act leglslatlon. An area of concern the Senate 15
the of cost conslderatlons 1n "feaslble" technology.
and Publlc Works and maybe consldered by the full Senate
on Health of the Energy and Commerce Commlttee has glven no
CMA 039207
that ha Hill schadula hearlngs for 3.x. 1n tha foreseeable
future.
CLEAN AIR
on May 2, House Health and Envlronment Subcommlttee consldered the
hazardous -1r pollutant sectlons of 3.x. 5314. Th1: was 1ntroduced by
Henry Waxman (D7CA7. Congressman John
ch-lrman of the full Energy and Commerce Commlttee, offered a
3.x. 5314. The Subconsalttee can Vote on the substltute whenever
Waxman rec-nvenes the Subcommlttee.
3.x. 5314 of hazardous air pollutant provlslons only, Since
May 2 when the acld raln provlslons whlch 1ndustry opposed were'voted out
(hazardous pollutants) are worklng to wln at least one Vote necessary for
approval .. the substltute. CMA also 15 developlng materlals to
35515: 1n .ny full commlttee conslderatlon of hazardous alr pollutants. In
addltlon. and 1ndustry contlnues to urge that constructlve amendments
on PSD nonfattalnment, for example, be 1ncluded 1n any clean air
that 1n the House thls year.
clean alr .111 s. 759 was lssued on May 3. s. 759 now appears on the
on acld control, such as s. 759 contalns. and lack of House progress
toward a explaln Senate inaction at present.
STATE LEVlL COMMUNICATION AND cooRDINATIoN
STATE LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
For the b.lance of the year, some states will be addresslng lssues
of great to our 1ndustry. In Pennsylvanla and Michigan the
1ndustry trylng to work out a compromlse on rlght to know; New Jersey
and are worklng on the publlc compensatlon lssue and
Loulslana 15 promotlng a large number of hazardous waste proposals. Tha
cIc's, 1n-ustry personnel and CMA Hill contlnue to work on these lssues.
There has been some restructurlng and strengthenlng of some of
counsel some states. many organlzatlons have been extremely
thelr leglslatlve actlvltles.
Hill prasant dlscusslons on Envlronmental Confllct Managamant,
Worker to Know, Groundwater. Superfund and Publlc Compensatlon. The
Natlonal olvernors Assoclatlon's annual meetlng Hill Include soma
on acld raln. groundwater and toxlcs 1ntegratlon.
Members the Envlronmental Task Group will be partlclpatlng 1n an
air rlsk assessment workshop sponsored by the Northeast States for
Alr Use Management (NESCAUM). The purpose of the meetlng 15
how toxlc air contamlnant rlsk evaluatlon processes are employed.
The Materlals Transportatlon Task Group partlclpated 1n
the conference of the Hazardous Materlals Advlsory Councll
was held 1n Arllngton, Virginia. The conference was
attended .y federal and state regulatory offlclals, state leglslators
and of 1ndustry. Dlscusslon centered on restrlctlons on
hazardous materlals transportatlon and cooperatlve efforts to 61nd
solutlons.
KEY
AND HAZARDOUS WASTE
Although . number of state leglslatures have already adjourned, some
have been 1ntroduced the New Jersey Splll Compensatlon and
tax. Other favorable changes 1nclude the followlngt
o
o
for exemptlons from the proposed new tax for
beneflc1.lly reused or recycled materlal.
o
companles whlch transport hazardous waste to another
Jersey t.x amount.
or 1n dlsposal technlques or sltes wlthout leglslatlve approval.
CMA 039219
has been 1ntroduced 1n Michigan to replace
materlal 1n underground tanks to carry liability 1nsurance. Clalms could
have made by people exposed to the hazardous waste. The new
1: 15
RIGHT To Know
Although the brleflng schedule has now been flnallzed for the
lltlgatl-n on the federal hazard communlcatlon standard, no declslon 1:
expected before next year. Plans are also movlng forward under the
ausplces of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce to challenge the New
In other states. the deadlock 1n the Michigan Senate Labor Commlttee
over the competlng labor and 1ndustry rlght to know
are contlnulng, no movement of the labor 15 foreseen at
thls A House floor Vote 1: expected 1n Pennsylvanla 1n late May on
have 1ncreased slgnlflcantly 1n recent months.
t
The GoV-rnor has Signed leglslatlon 1n Iowa and another 1n
1: expected to be Signed 1n the near future. Nelther of
these Will have a Significant adverse unpact on the chemlcal
Other actlvlty 15 ongolng 1n Loulslana,
Rhode Island and Florlda. The Loulslana and Florlda
are the most Significant.
actlvlty 15 5:111 pendlng on onerous statutes 1n New
Jersey, Massachusetts and Illlnols.
J
I

The publlc compensatlon sltuatlon has stablllzed durlng the past
month. new Jersey remalns the only major threat to pass leglslatlon thls
year. H-wever, as more time passes before the hearlng process beglns, the
llkellh-od for passage thls sesslon dlmlnlshes slgnlflcantly.
In states. the study commlsslon 1n Massachusetts contlnues to
meet take testlmony weekly. A report 1: expected before the end of the
1n New 15 focused on changlng the exlstlng statute of llmltatlons for
tort cl-lms from the present restrlctlve rule to the more llberal and
generally accepted dlscovery rule, other states Hlth the potentlal for
thls year are Callfornla and Illlnols.
1
I

1
1
CMA 039210
AIR
of the Massachusetts alr toxlc program 15 nearlng
comple-lon. A Chemlcal Health Effects Methodology provldes for
r.gulatlons and standards adopted for those substances whlch are
ranked hlghest on the 115:. The flnal result of thls methodology could
be an amblent emlsslons for a glven alr toxlc. The state
agency has generated posslble amblent numbers for 100 of 44m
member- feel that a more complete descrlptlon 15 needed on how cancer
potent: 15 derlved and there 15 a need to develop a system whlch allows for
The toxlcs program 1: Scheduled for completlon by July of
thls Malne Hill begln to develop an air toxlcs program sometlme
KEY
WATER
of 1n the toxlcologlcal Eleld. The rules impose standards on eight
all w.ter systems servlng more than 25 customers be tested every three
years for traces of Vinyl chlorlde and benzene, known carclnogens, as well
KEY
1ncre.se. Leglslatlon whlch has been 1ntroduced 1n Callfornla would create
envlr-nmental agents. Mlchlgan's b111, 15 passed, would requlre the
compl-te epldemlologlc surveys of cancer related dlseases and to apply
preventlve and control measures. A number of other states
51mllar leglslatlon.
KEY

leglslatlon has been 1ntroduced 1n Pennsylvanla would
place addltlonal requlrements and restrlctlons on many 1ndustry
Industry's concerns the 1nclude the followlng:
o
or 5. gallons.
CMA
0
of drlvers.
o
The Fire Commlssloner 15 dlrected wrlte regulatlons
"re-sonably" restrlctlng the transport of hazardous
0
to notlfy suppllers and transporters Hlth whom they
do about requlrements.
Th- Pennsylvanla Chemlcal 1ndustry Councll has been Very actlve
thls lssue and Will be the coordlnatlng mechanlsm for future actlon
thls as 1: becomes necessary.
5
