Exhlblt c
PRoPosE-
0N
LEVEL CONTROL STRATEGY ANDMALIES
When P.L. 917504, Clean Alr Act Amendments of 1970, was
1: was expected that natlonal amblent air quallty
(NAA057 would be met natlonwlde by 1975 or m1d71977
at the latest.
Tlmely compllance has not been achleved for th
Dxldan- (ozone7 levels are belng exceeded 1n 74 reglons, nearly
all of whlch encompass chemlcal 1ndustry concentratlons.
prove technlcal understandlng for enforclng the NAAQS, EPA
1n 1974775 focused on the contrlbutlon of urban ozone pre*
cursor emlsslons amblent ozone concentratlons and on the rel?
atlve of local ozone formatlons and long range transport.
gle sourceS, EPA now 15 actlng to requlre com?
Hlth P.L. 917504.
of hydrocarbon emlsslons from
moblle and statlonary sources will be requlred, 1n spite of the
the occurrence of high ozone concentratlons at any given
slte.
In provlde data as the effectlveness
control strategles, the Alr Quallty Commlttee (ADC)
from polnt sources and ozone levels.
The s-udy needs to be undertaken now so that the results can
be av.1lable prior to the adoptlon of hydrocarbon controls, ex*
durlng the second quarter of 1977.
The proposed to
be by the Radlan Corporatlon, Will Cost $54,500.
metropolltan areas would be analyzed, selected as repi
and nonichemlcal areas (e.g., Denver).
organlzed on a unlform basls, and placed on magnetlc tape
for d-ta reductlon after certlflcatlon of the baslc Valldlty of
the Amblent alr data will be obtalned for comparable tune
and quallfled to be certaln that 1: 15 correct, 1: rep*
CMA
data.
Corr-latlons then will be drawn among high hourly ozone
Valu-s, thelr perslstence, annual average concentratlon of
and hydrocarbon emlsslons. A speclal analysls Will be
made of unusual eplsodes and partlcular attentlon Will be glven
sual eplsodes.
A Will be prepared descrlblng the results
and 1n retrospect, current or proposed hydrocarbon con*
trol strategles would have worked to reduce ozone levels 1n the
be
The flnal report will 1nclude data descrlblng reglonal Vari
of the reglonal control strategles themselves.
could
be -xtended to deflne whlch hydrocarbon specles need to be con*
tr-lled flrst or most, whether drastlc reductlons 1n auto trafflc
of exceedlng the standards by dlfferent amounts and

MIA

NA
