Th1:
reflects a 199‘ chemlcal trade balance of about $379 million 1n
1nvestment 1n other country.
In many cases, Canadlan
subsldlarles v.5. companles produce or flnlshed
products, not -nly for the Canadlan market, but also for the
Unlted States -nd thlrd country markets.
1ndustr1es each other.
Canada has a base 1n
capaclty for l-rge Volumes of certaln baslc chemlcals and 1nteri
medlates.
chemlcal and d-wnstream chemlcal processlng 1ndustry, as well as
capaclty to pr-duce a Varlety of commodlty chemlcals.
The Unlted
Dep't. of Commerce, Bureau of Census“ of
v.5. Export Import Trade December, 19347.
039379
also the world's largest market for products of the
III. SPECIFIC
Any Ellateral Trade Agreement Must Confer Balanced
agreements thls contentlon.
Sectlon 102 of the Trade
Act of 1974, .5 amended by Sectlon 401 of the Trade and Tarlff
Act of 1934,
1nd1cates that such negotlatlons should be
conducted on the basls of mutuallty.
Moreover. the leglslatlve
bllateral agr-ements of the sort proposed Hlth Canada must be
"reclprocal
$21127, as am.nded by Sectlon 401157 127 of the Trade and Tarlff
039379
Any Free Trad. Agreement Canada Must Address
Negotlatlons -n the Ellmlnatlon of Preferentlal Canadlan
Chemlcal and Energy Pollcles and Forelgn
Investment Must be an Integral Part of Any Free
belleves the negotlatlons between the Unlted States
and Canada on a bllateral free trade agreement should not be
llmlted to subject of tarlfficuttlng.
The ellmlnatl-n of
feedstock and energy polleles and by Canadlan forelgn 1nvestment
restrlctlons also be adequately addressed 1n such
negotlatlons.
belleve that the v.5. Gov rnment
obtalnlng Can.dlan agreement to ellmlnate the trade dlstortlng
effects of restrlctlve pollcles.
Ample support for the
1ncluslon of barrlers 1n such negotlatlons 15 found 1n
Sectlons 1021.7/ 103 and 105 of the Trade Act of 1974 119
039390
Canadlan Raw and Energy Pollcles
belleves -hat the 1nternal energy pollcles unplemented
under the Natlonal Energy Pollcy
have h.d an
adverse on market mechanlsms 1n Canada and on Canadlan
trade Unlted States 1n energyirelated products, such as
chemlcals.
We understand that the 1: under revlew by the
Canadlan and 15 llkely to be changed.
In any case, .5
part of a bll.teral free trade agreement, we urge that the Unlted
governments' supply, price, and access pollcles do not
an artlflclal advantage for the producers of one country over
those of the
Such an assur.nce 15 partlcularly unportant
to such as the petrochemlcal 1ndustry, for whlch
feedstock and avaliablllty are crltlcal because the cost
of feedstock: represents the largest element of cost for many
petrochemlcal products.
If the trade wlstortlng effects of the
price of, and access to. petrochemlcal feedstock: are not
neutrallzed. those Canadlan pollcles will largely determlne
the of competltlon 1n 1nternatlonal trade 1n
between the Unlted States and Canada, undermlnlng
the worklngs .5 an open market system.
039391
Canadlan Pollcy
The Unlted St.tes Government must address dlfferences 1n
1ndustry are subject to dlfferent or more strlngent
requlrements are Canadlan 1nvestors 1n Canada.
be 1n vlolatl-n of GATT Artlcle III because made approval
to
e
1nve5t 1n Can-da contlngent upon a forelgn 1nvestor's acceptance
of often oner-us requlrements to whlch domestlc
Canadlan were not subject.
We that the Canadlan Government has begun to
admlnlster FI'A 1n 3 less restrlctlve manner and that the
Canadlan has passed the "Investment Canada Act" as

whlle thls leglslatlon 15 supposed to
restrlctlons remain, especlally on forelgn acqulsltlons of
exlstlng companles.
1: remalns :- be seen how the new
on Tarlffs and Trade, Report of the
Panel. of the Forelgn Investment Revlew
1n the House of Commons on December 7, 1934.
039392
In any event, CMA urges the Unlted States Government to seek
restrlctlons. other than those deallng natlonal securlty,
prior to fln.llzlng a tarlfficuttlng agreement Hlth Canada.
Other Trade Barrlers, Such as Inadequate
Protectlon Intellectual Property Should Also be
Consldered Any Free Trade Negotlatlons Between the Unlted
States and C.nada.
that the protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts 15
essentlal 1ncreased 1nnovatlon and productlvlty and 15 a Vital
part of 1nte-natlonal trade declslons.
encouraglng -uch protectlon 1n other countrles are contalned 1n
the Trade Tarlff Act of 1934,
the toplc 15 belng 1ncluded
1n numerous trade and 1nvestment negotlatlons, and
efforts are by some 1ndustry groups to have 1ntellectual

In thls urges the Unlted States Government to
address the of protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts
Canada has
recognlzed the 1mportance of provldlng such
039393
protectlon.
However. som- problem areas remaln, for example, 1n
We belleve a free trade agreement
Hlth Canada 1nclude a resolutlon of these lssues, as well
as ellmlnatlng any other nonitarlff trade barrlers
Agreement Canada Must be Ef?ect1ve.
Free Trade the Unlted Statesand Canada
skould Incluwe All Chemlcals and Related Products and Not be
Restrlcted Chemlcal Industry Subsectorsor Speclflc
Products.
A key lssue the U.S.*Canada negotlatlons 15 whether
import or tarlffs Will be ellmlnated "across the board" or
15 to any chemlcal 1ndustry product or subs choral
approach.
Instead, we that tarlff negotlatlons
Canada must -ddress all chemlcals and related products.
We
belleve such broader negotlatlons offer greater potentlal for
mutual trade beneflts.
039394
Any Free Agreement Canada Should Requlre That All
products for DutyiFree Entry Into the Unlted States
70 Percent the Value of the Product.
condltlon dutyifree entry 1nto the Unlted States under a
bllateral fr-e trade agreement Canada.
Th1: crlterl-n would
be fully the goal of enhanced U.S./Canadlan trade
and would help to prevent potentlal abuses of a speclal trade
relatlonshlp through transshlpment practlces.
The value
threshold run: be high enough to prevent products of
performed 1n Canada.
urges :h.: the minimum domestlc Canadlan value added
Generallzed of Preferences, the Carlbbean Basln Economlc
Recovery Act, and the proposed bllateral free trade agreement
Hlth Israel.
Hlth Canada necause Canada 15 not a developlng country and should
not he the llberal domestlc value added requlrements that
In
addltlon, recommends that the value of v.5. origin raw
materlals other components 1ncorporated 1nto a Canadlan
product 1n Ianada be consldered to be Canadlan value added for
purposes of the 70 percent test to promote bllateral trade.
039395
A Free Agreement Canada Should Provlde for the
Mandatory” 'elmposltlon of Dutles 1n the"Event of
1nclude a "-napiback" provlslon under whlch Unlted States import
column 1 rales 15 the condltlons of the free trade agreement are
For example, 15 1nvestment restrlctlons
were relmpo-ed by Canada or 15 Canada a new nonitarlff
barrler exports, then the dutles on unports from Canada
Free Trade Canada Should Also Address
Other IssuE', Such as How Temporary Trade Dlstortlons Caused
by Currency Fluctuatlons and Injury to a Domestlc Industry
by Entry of Products W111 be Handled, Avold
Impalrment ms the Beneflts Under Any Ellateral Free Trade
Agreement.
addressed the context of bllateral free trade negotlatlons
Hlth Canada are how to handle temporary trade dlstortlons caused
by currency fluctuatlons and what to do 15 a domestlc 1ndustry 15
1njured by dutyifree entry of products under an agreement.
Conslderatlnn should be given to 1mposltlon of a surcharge to
correct the temporary trade dlstortlons 1n the flrst 1nstance and
to imposltlln of temporary safeguard dutles to ellmlnate the
unfalr statutes Hill contlnue to apply to 1mports fr
Canada.
039395
Any Ellater-l Free Trade Agreement Canada Should
Contaln an and Elndlng Dlspute Settlement
Mechanlsm.
that any bllateral free trade agreement Hlth
Canada contaln procedures for the settlement of dlsputes
between and the Unlted States that arlse under the
agreement.
We do not that the procedures contalned 1n
the U.S./Israell agreement are adequate for thls
purpose.
Instead, we recommend that dlspute settlement procedures 1n
settlement .5 dlsputes;
provlde for a rapid and effectlv
declslon the event of a stalemate; and. most 1mportantly,
provlde significant 1ndustry 1nput 1n the dlspute settlement
process.
for Tlmely Industry Input Before and Durlng v.5,
Canada.
A5 by the Trade Act of 1974, and 1n th
Trade
a structur. of formal 1ndustry
from all s-gments of v.5. 1: 1n place.
There 15 a
as amended m: Sectlon 1103 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979,
Jrstat.
039397
wldespread perceptlon that the ISAC: were not advlsed or
consulted .dequately 1n the course of developlng the U.S./Israel
Free Trade Agreement nor 1n earller and subsequent v.5.
Government dlscusslons Mexlco whlch led to the Signing
the U.S./M-x1can Subsldles Agreement.
ellcltlng sector 1nput on a tlmely basls 15 any
consultatl-ns on a U.S./Canada bllateral agreement proceed.
Moreover. belleve that approprlate mechanlsms must exlst
to allow addltlonal 1ndustry input, such as from and
other trad- assoclatlons, 1nto any such negotlatlons so that all
conslderatlons can be addressed prior to any
commltment- havlng been made.

belleV-s that, 15 the lssues ralsed 1n thls paper are
consldered by the Unlted States Government before negotlatlons
agreement Canada, then trade beneflts mutually advantageous
to both are achlevable through such an agreement.



exhlblt
I
AMD
PRoPosED 0N snowuwzaran PROTECTION
1
I
1
program and to request approval of one new element of DlA's
pollcy.
15 an 1mportant natural resource. 1: has many and Varled uses
1nclud1ng water supplles, crop irrigation, llvestock waterlng and
1ndustrlal water supplles. Approxlmately 50a of all Amerlcans obtaln all or
part of th-lr drlnklng water from groundwater sources.
Recently lssues have come to the forefront. Many groundwater
lssues are or soon will be before Congress, EPA, state leglslatures and
regulatory agencles, and on the agendas of envlronmental groups, 1ndustry groups,
0
groundwat-r leglslatlon 1n September 1995 whlch may
transport.tlon, product use, waste dlsposaly.
o
In 1935, groundwater related were 1ntroduced 1n 25
states. contaln provlslons whlch slgnlflcantly
unpact 1ndustry operatlons. An even greater level
0
Some such as Wlsconsln and Florlda have enacted
detalled for groundwater management programs.
0
EPA recen-ly developed and 15 movlng unplement a groundwater protectlon strategy.
0
Consensus groups, such as the Conservatlon foundatlon and the
Natlonal Alllance have conned task groups to address
the issue'.
0
other assoclatlons such as NACA. and NEDA are
pollcy statements.
0
groups such as EDF and EPI (Envlronmental

To a beneflclal balance between chemlcal 1ndustry operatlons and
of human health and aquatlc resources.
Elements Status of Groundwater Pollcy
addresses federal and state leglslatlve and regulatory responslbllltles. CMA'S
posltlon the federal/state split contlnues be that:
0
states sh-uld have responslblllty for deflnlng. Implementlng
0
the feder-l government should provlde guldance, technlcal
transfer .nd funds to states 1n thelr efforts.
the issue. These aspects 1nclude groundwater standards, monltorlng,
date are 1n Table 1.
Proposed Protectlon Pollcy
The groundwater protectlon pollcy 15 before the Board of Dlrectors
resource must be protected.
1ntegral part of broader groundwater management program.
As develop thelr protectlon recamends that states
conslder 1nst1tut1ng requlrements for approprlate faclllty deslgn and operatlng
developed by each faclllty that Hill minimise the release of
pollutan-s (groundwater protectlon practlces).
Also. recognlses that states may choose to 1nst1tute the c llowlng
practlce- as part of a groundwater management progral 37 a groundwater
wlthdraw.l program to protect groundwater quallty, by land use plannlng 1n areas
where potentlal for adverse 1mp acts from groundwater contaln Stlon from
future are Significant) e7 3 permlt progrma for polnt source
dlscharg-s to groundwater where such dlscharges are not already controlled under
exlstlng regulatlons"
Requests: Actlon
revlew for 1nfozmatlon only“
for one element of the groundwater progral
Quallty (full text attached).
Speclflc approval 15
Pollcy Frotectl n of

0393.0
Element
of am Posltlon and Status
exlstlng quallty or at a quallty necessary
to malnt-ln uSE, provlded that standards
are where groundwater 15
drawn use“ The federal government
should d-Velop ussibased crlterla 5
states c.n set reasonable standards"
1
Th1: posltlon addresses when, where and
how to groundwater 1nsure
that groundwater quallty 15 not
The posltlon calls for tech?
nlcally sound methods for monltorlng
by the -oard of Dlrectors 1n June 1935.
Alterna-lve Supplies of
Drlnkln- Water
unlt should use to deter?
mine alternatlve drlnklng water
supplle- should be provlded. Th1: 15
an of current Board
Superfund pollcy.
5°15 Aqulfer
to groundwater contmnatlon
15 an of Board approved
Use
uses. posltlon was approved by the
Board .5 Dlrectors 1n 1932. Raievaluai
Produc- Handllng
Th1: p-llcy should address product
preven- contamlnatlon of groundwater.
Plans pollcy development are
underw.y.
03.391
J72
PosITIoN


Th1: d-cument provldes concapts for stats groundwltar quallty protaatlon
of prlvate and publlc actlvltles (1ndustrlal, domestlc, munlclpal,
by exlstlng state and federal statutes, regulatlons and programs.
been the responslblllty of state and local governments. In Vlew
of th. locallzed nature of groundwatar use and the land use conslderatlons tled
so to groundwater management, states contlnue be best sulted to
develmp and 1mplement groundwater management program. Some states have
or are 1n the process of deslgnlng programs tallored to meet thelr
should conslder 1nst1tut1ng performance requlrements for each faclllty
that minimise the release of pollutants (groundwater protectlon practlces
Also. CMA reallzes that stats: may choose to 1nst1tute one or more of the
from future actlvltles are Significant; and a permlt program
for source dlscharges to groundwater where such dlschargus are not already
under exlstlng regulatlons.
The of requlrements for approprlata faclllty deslgn and
practlces (GPP'57 15 an acceptable and approprlate means of protectlng

from 111 source'. Such practlces should be developed by the affected faclllty,
nec-ssary, to demonstrate the effectlveness of the speclflc protectlon practlce.
In, addltlon. a should 1nclude educatlonal and training programs for those
for 1mplementatlon.
In addltlon, the app plan should be modlfled whenever changes at a
or where actual releases 1nd1cate the plan 15 1nadequate.
states opt to 1nclude as part of thelr groundwater quallty
Th- federal government should 55515: states 1n developlng requlrements
by provldlng guldance and technlcal asslstance and by creatlng the opportunlty
exchange. Th1: would 35515: states 1n the most
approprlate and necessary procedure for those whose land surface actlvltles
cnuld affect groundwater quallty.
wlthdrawal of quantltles of water can affect groundwater quallty
.y causlng saltwater 1ntruslon, undeslrable changes 1n groundwater flow
