G
TD OF DIRECTORS
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
Fletcher L. Byrom,
Economlc P-llcy Revlew commlttee
September 14,
1975
There 15 suns concern by many 1n 1ndustry that July and August
Certalnly, many
areas hav- been fltful at best.
sales 1n retall chalns have evldenced encouraglng strength.
The real concern 1: the lack of any strength 1n the houslng
market no Signs yet of any major move 1n plant and equlpment

Inflatlon.ry pressures are at least passlve for the present.
But again, projectlons of shortages 1n prlmary 1ndustry, only
sllght 1n-reases 1n capaclty utlllzatlon due to the lack of new
capaclty 1n recent years, are a cause for real
concern :- many.
jobs and thelr reactlons Will be 15 they do not 61nd the klnd
depreclatlon pollcy and the fallure to date of much of
1ndustry reduce 1:5 dlvldendipayout ratlos 1n order to compensate
justlfy n-w plant expendltures on the basls of present proflt
levels all these concerns hang llke a heavy cloud over a recovery
whlch to 15 not as buoyant as they mlght have hoped, admlttlng
that to the lack of boom condltlons 15 a good Sign for a
Wage and 'rlce Controls
CMA 03704-
Wage and controls contlnue 1n effect 1n Canada, so that
Canadlan companles of MCA as well as Us member companles
ln thelr operatlons face problems slmllar to those whlch
Us 1ndustry durlng the 197171974 perlod.
Stablllty contlnues to focus attentlon on Situations 1: regards as
1nflatlon-ry. However, whlle 1: does have subpoena power, 1: has
no authorlty.
In Vlew the solld opposltlon of both
.nd labor, there 15 no present llkellhood of the renewed
Senator .1“: of Michigan three years ago 1ntroduced a
troduced . sllghtly revlsed Verslon.
The 1ntended to
measures 1nd1cate the exlstence of concentratlon" 1n the
given The chemlcal 1ndustry was one of seven llsted as a
posslble target.
Th1: was formally abandoned by Senator Hart on May 13
thls yean. He conceded that 1:: enactment was not "polltlcally
modest Reform Act 15. 34297.
1: would amend the
1: would ellmlnate any requlrement of proof of 1ntent
1n actlons brought by the Unlted States;
1: would ellmlnate superlor as a defense
137 1: wmuld ellmlnate the prlma effect of a Government
judgment 1n such an actlon for subsequent prlvate trlple
damages;
1: would allow courts to take 1nto conslderatlon economlcs
of scale 1n fashlonlng remedles.
No 1: expected thls year on thls new Hart b111, and
When the Hart Industrlal Reorganlzatlon Act' was flrst 1ntroduced
MCA (1n urder to be prepared for all engaged an
economlc consultant. Professor Steven Lustgarten of Baruch College,
CMA 0370.4

dustry's case.
Vlew of Proposals for Deconcentratlon," has been completed and
15 avall-nle. Senator Hart's Judlclary Subcommlttee on Antli
trust Monopoly dld not 1n fact hold any hearlngs on the chemlcal
1ndustry, the Lustgarten report should be helpful 1n case Congress
es
1
for d1v.st1ture 1n the 011 1ndustry 7 Vertlcal dlvestlture, llmltlng
dustry transportatlon, reflnlng, and marketlng) and
horlzon-al dlvestlturE, requlrlng 011 and gas producers to dlvest
By a Vale of a 7, the Senate Judlclary Commlttee has reported
out 5, .337, a Vertlcal dlvestlture
1: requlre the 19
largest 011 companles to dlvest themselves of Vertlcally 1ntegrated
holdlng- Hlthln Elva years. No further actlon 1: expected on the
on the
oppos
"leglsl.t1ve dlvestlture and/or dlvorcement of the 011
dustry -nd ...51mllar Congresslonal efforts 1n other major 1ndu57
A of Senate Commerce Commlttee hearlngs, chalred by
Senator Hartke, were held early thls summer on the lssues of corpora: responslblllty/federal charterlng, offerlng Ralph Nader a
forum whlch to push his advocacy of federal charterlng for
larger a favorlte cause of However, both
any developments 1n thls area.

A task force. h aded by Harold Passer of Eastman Kodak, has
been revlew the Varlous proposals 1n the area of eco*
nomlc mooted 1n the Congress and elsewhere.
1:
Hill 1:5 flrst meetlng September 15.
7. Cozporatlons
The Ecnnomlc Pollcy Revlew Commlttee 1: represented by two
on a speclal MCA task force deallng the problems
faclng multlnatlonal cozporatlons.
Other Commlttees represented
are Pollcy, Internatlonal Trade, Government Relatlons, and
Publlc Relatlons.
Multln-tlonal corporatlons are under study and/or attack
There the
There the Internatlonal Labor
Drganlzatlon whlch 15 conductlng a study on the soclal unpact
There 15 the Drganlzatlon of Amerlcan
There 15 the UN Conference on Trade and Development
where the World natlons rally for thelr attack upon
1ndu5lry, the Drganlzatlon for Economlc Cooperatlon and Development
on Multlnatlonal Cozporatlons and the tax*wr1t1ng Com?
of the Congress 7 Ways and Means 1n the House and Flnance
1n Senate.
The force has been monltorlng developments 1n all these

to an effectlve 1ndustry educatlonal campalgn, the
drlve for punitive taxatlon of was largely turned back 1n
the H-use Ways and Means and Senate Flnance Commlttees.
The
The
outlaw such payments.
annu.l meetlng of the ILD thls Sumner.
The Commlsslon on
Corporatlons 15 at work on guldellnes, but 15 not
to produce them for elghteen months or so.
By the most unportant recent development on the 1nter1
natl-nal stage was the adoptlon by the on June 21 of a
stat-ment on "Internatlonal Investment and Multlnatlonal
CMA 037045
statement. the product of lengthy negotlatlons among the 24
1nternatlonally.
In .artlcular. the statement:
1nvestors, so that they will be accorded treatment no
favorable than that accorded domestlc enterprlses 1n llke
~ 'ecognlzes the sanctlty of contracts between governments and

~ the posltlve contrlbutlons whlch multlnatlonal
~ the use of 1nternatlonal arbltratlon 1n resolvlng
as the debate over multlnatlonal corporatlons progresses 1n
wlder forum of the Unlted Natlons.
037047
