3
TD BOARD DIRECTORS
James McKee Jr.. Chalrman
Publlc Relatlons Commlttee
22, 1975
Th haz.rds of holdlng the same offlce for two years are obvlous.
In the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee report covered two maln
polnts for future actlon:
1. we would focus more shazply on major opportunltles as well
as the larger problems of the chemlcal 1ndustry, and
2. we would establlsh closer relatlonshlps other functlonal
areas .5 MCA so a more meanlngful contrlbutlon to the 1ndustry's
total could be made.
These have been done.
The on the chemlcal 1ndustry by medla and government 1n
the 12 months have made 1: imperative.
In the
Toxlc Leglslatlon demonstrated what can be accompllshed
1nteractlon of functlons when proper leadershlp 15 provlded.
'Spurr-d by today's publlc demands and the proof that jolnt commlttee
actlon can get thlngs done, the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee stepped
tip practlce of meetlng Hlth the leadershlp of certaln other
functl-nal commlttees, partlcularly Government Relatlons, Technlcal
and Advlsory.
Th1: w.s started about 19 months ago to gain a better perspectlve
we can have a common purpose and pursult. We have agreed
These .re human health and the envlronment. and 1ncreaslng govern*
ment whlch erode 1ndustry's management of 1:: resources.
commlttees.
The plan was proposed by a chalrman of our commlttee, Ned
of now, and adopted at our September meetlng. Most of the
These commlttees are Quallty, Water Resources, Solid Waste,
Dccup.tlonal Health, Government Relatlons, Legal Advlsory and
Regulatlons Advlsory.
of th-se commlttees and the publlc relatlons commlttee to stlmulate
on the publlc lssues.
Each nommlttee Will be asked to provlde baslc facts and a statement
posltlon on thelr functlon as related to govern*
ment, health and envlronment. The Air Quallty Commlttee, for
about air pollutlon, and provlde the 1ndustry posltlon on current
Membe-s of the task force would serve as coordlnators of the project
1n leadlng cltles where maxlmum exposure to our polnt of, a
Vlew be galned. We have 1n mlnd prestlglous platforms llke the
Club of Detrolt, Hlth accompanylng appearances on local
radlo and TV plus newspaper 1ntervlews.
The t_sk force would be responslble for placlng 1ndustry materlal
1n hands of selected spokesmen, coordlnatlng appearances on a
geogr.ph1c basls and maklng sure that the load was properly spread
among the member companles.
Each would develop his toplc 1n his own way, weavlng 1n
of MCA, supported by other chlef executlve offlcers not
Hill galned as we bulld up thls corps of spokesmen. MCA has a
const.nt need for 1ndustry experts who can provlde statements and
make -ppearances on relatlvely short notlce.
News as you know, will use responses to lssues and handle
"the -ther slde's" posltlon when the story 15 breaklng.
There 15
It's -1ther
We to get thls plan underway 1n early 1977.
1: wlthout saylng that all onigolng PR programs are belng
will .e addressed.
CMA
I
cnemacology will expand further 1:: coverage of member company
succ-ss storles 1n the areas of envlronment and toxlc substances.
contrlbutlons by the chemlcal 1ndustry emphasls on
and envlronmental protectlon.
MCA news will contlnue to report on 1ndustry and company programs
1n key publlc lssues so that good 1deas can be shared across
the
comp.ny plants whlch have achleved goals 1n energy conservatlon.
Th1: program, of course, could demonstrate MCA'S dedlcatlon
conservatlon and show that even wlthout a natlonal energy
partlclpatlng 1n MCA actlvltles 1n 51x companles and the
staff of MCA. That panel has now grown to 19
whlch we base our forward plannlng we share Hlth you today.
of thls year's envlronmental and energy lssues. Water and
air pollutlon leglslatlon will doubtless take over the spotllght
occupled by toxlc substances.
1n food and
packaglng Hill joln other lurklng problems llke pestleldes
to keep all of us busy. We must be prepared to answer our crltlcs,
:- ltemlze consequences of tradeoffs and to accentuate the posltlve
