TRADE;
EXPORT company LEGISLATION
I
now subj-ct jolnt conference.
language from Representatlve St. 3.x. 50157.
If 1nto law, a new
form of export effort will be posslble. The CHA Internatlonal Trade
Commltte- Hill determlne how to advlse member companles on use of the export tradlng
company of marketlng.
MARITIME REFORM PROPOSALS DELAYED

Senators Howard Metzenbaum and Strom The delay has been
created necause of antltrust implicatlﬁn, and because of Senator Slade Gorton's
an unrelated 1nvolv1ng the Brlck case. 5. 1593
shlppers and carrlers.
House actlon on the Merchant Marlne and Flsherles Commlttee*reported
3.x. 4374, has been delayed untll the resolutlon of antltrust concerns
by the Judlclary Commlttee. Jurlsdlctlon over the was asserted by the
0379.4
now 1: Verslon will emerge from the House Rules Commlttee, generally
supports the Judlclary Verslon and would encourage no further amendments except
Commltte‘. 1: 15 posslble the could go to the floor under suspenslon or wlthout
Passage .5 a House Similar to the Senate
measure offer the Senate leadershlp the means to adopt the House b111, thus
Marltlme Reform.

ports was unexpectedly sent to the House Rules Commlttee last month.
3.x. had been labeled nonieontroverslal 1n an attempt to gain the opportunlty
for Hous- floor conslderatlon. ; A rule for the was not given.
Dpposltl-n to the came primarily from a group of mldwestern Congressmen,
and Efforts contlnue heap the from reachlng the House floor.
REGULATI'Y REFORM LEGISLATION
The delay 1n House conslderatlon of regulatory leglslatlon may
an omnlbus regulatory b111, 3.x. 74a (DanlelsoninicAy. Since
a
on 24 the Senate passed 5. the Regulatory Act. 5.
coalltlon seeklng passage of thls 1mportant leglslatlon.
In July, the coalltlon stepped up 1:: efforts to secure House
D'Nelll .nd other members of the House Democratlc leadershlp had reservatlons
however. may be resolved by amendments whlch would brlng 3.x. 74a closer
to the of 5. Although chances for House floor conslderatlon of

t

PATENT RESTORATION BILL REPORTED
has actlvely supported passage of patent tern restoratlon leglslatlon,
3.x. and 1:5 predecessor 3.x. 1937 (Kastenmeleriniwlscy. on July 23,
the Judlclary Commlttee favorably reported 3.x. 5444 to the House.
y
3.x. would add up to 7 years of patent life to products that must
undergo governmentimandated testlng and revlew. Durlng the markiup of the
by Judlclary Commlttee, a technlcal amendment was approved whlch would
rather "reclplent of marketlng approval." Th1: change would ensure that
term
r
Patent restoratlon leglslatlon passed the Senate by Volce Vote last
opposed a coalltlon of organlzed labor, certaln consumer groups, and the
generlc drug 1ndustry.
and 15 followlng the leadershlp of the Manufacturlng
present Vote for the Representatlves of member companles have been
alerted to contact Members of Congress urging them to Vote for passage of

LEGISLATION
I
would g-Vern the patent rlghts of employed 1nventors. 3.x. 4723 and 3.x. 5535
1
would asslgnment agreements between employers and employees
whlch to the employer rlghts to any inventlon that 15 not an "employment ~
1nvent1-n" or a "servlce 1nventlon." 3.x. 5535 also calls for "adequate
compens.tlon for the (1nventor'57 servlce inventlon."
on July 29, the House Judlclary Subcommlttee on Courts,
and the of Justlce held a publlc hearlng recelve support testlmony
from Instltute of Electrlcal and Electronlc Englneers and from the AFL’CID.
The and Trademark Commlttee 15 revlewlng thls leglslatlon and will
develop approprlate CMA comments, but 1: 15 unllkely that leglslatlon on thls
subject could be enacted 1n thls Congress.
037-55
I

leglsla-lve and regulatory actlvlty
By late July and August, most stats laglslaeurts had adjourned for the year.
In tha -thar5. suroter raeassas wart 1n affact. Tha followlng statas art expected
statas hald or Will hold speclal sasslons 1n 1953 to addrass budgat matters
and oth.r presslng concerns such as unemployment and taxes.
actlvlty has also decreased reflectlng sumer schedules.
Tha 5:5.5 Affalrs Plannlng Group, organlzed 1n Aprll at tha dlrectlon of
has now completed 1:: flnal report whlch 15 belng presented 1n August to tha Executlve
Tha report focusses on:
Outlook for 1ncreased stats leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty.
Currant and emerglng lssues.
org.nlzatlonal needs to effectlvely address state affalrs.
Status .nd role of state chemlcal 1ndustry counclls.
Program- of allled assoclatlons.
. AND TASK ACTIVITY
Hlth leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty durlng the summer, the
SASC 1:: task groups have concentrated on preparatlon for the 1993 leglslatlve
Major actlvltles 1nclude:
plannlng for four reglonal CMA State Affalrs Issues
Semlnar- be held 1n October and November 1n Port Chester
Atlanta Chlcago (XL), and Denver (Coy. These sesslons are
hlghllght state leglslatlve and regulatory trends and
acqualnl plant managers, reglonal state government relatlons repi
resentallves, state trade and assoclatlons and allled
representatlves Hlth chemlcal 1ndustry lssues and CMA'S
posture on them.
and New York havlng been addressed to date.
1
037-57
1
Meetlng- of the Network Task Group 1n Mlnnesota and Wlsconsln
durlng These meetlngs are deslgned to enhance the worklng
states explorlng the need and deslrablllty of establlshlng
t
and guldellnes for leglslatlve and regulatory tracklng
Presentatlons by potentlal Vendors for the 1993794 sesslon
Will be 1nv1ted partlclpate 1n the program.
NATIONAI ORGANIZATIONS ANNUAL MEETINGS
Durlng and August, the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures (NCSL7
1
and the Natlonal Governors Assoclatlon held thelr annual meetlngs. Pollcy
maklng -esslons on chemlcal 1ndustry lssues were llmlted and no Significant adverts :
Interac-lon between the NCSL and the communlty
1ncrease the beneflt of all partles. had an exhibit at the
NCSL explalnlng our Chemtrec actlvltles and the 1ndustry's efforts to managt
worked NCSL staff to place 1ndustry spokesman on hazardous materlals
t
and blotechnology panels.
5
I
ISSUES
RIGHT Know
I
c
thls ye.r whlch contalned extenslve record keeplng requlrements. The Governor
then these provlslons and his veto was recently sustalned. Proponents of
1n Wlsconsln may attempt to revlse the law 1n the near future to makt
1: more strlngent.
1
thelr w.y through the state admlnlstratlve process. If and whan they emerge, the
natlon.
based thelr ordlnances on the model proposal drafted by the State
Health Iepartment, but the more recent ordlnances are becomlng more dlverse.
C1nc1nn.tl flnally enacted a communlty rlghtitoiknow durlng the summer,
A new cmmblned worker and connnunlty rlghtitoiknow 15707 has been

1
1n New Jersey by Senator Dalton and hearlngs are expected 1n September.
15 closely Hlth the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll on thelr
An 1ndu-try court challenge to West Virginia's 1991 worker rlghtitoiknow law
has defeated.
Drganlz-d labor has made state rlghtitoiknow a prlorlty lssue for 1933. Th1:
15 evld-nclng 1tself 1n states llke Michigan and Texas where rumours perslst of
preparatlon.
In to meet thls challenge, CMA 1: 1n the flnal stages
of prep.r1ng a comprehenslve packet on the rlghtitoiknow lssue for use
1n the Th1: would supplement the lssues analysls booklet whlch was made
HAZARDOUS WASTES
waste contlnues be the most actlve state program area. The SASC
Waste Dlsposal Task Group has been 1nvolved 1n the followlng actlvltles:
Gearlng up to address the unpact 1n the states of the forthcomlng
tort study mandated under federal Superfund.
waste.
1nteractlon EMC task groups 1n pollcy development
and actlvltles for state actlvltles.
Meetlng chemlcal 1ndustry and state assoclatlon representatlves
The Significant leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the summer months was the
passage of a Superfund by New York. The flnal was the product of 1ntense
between 1ndustry and the state and between the Assembly and Senate.
The act creates a cleanup fund whlch 15 funded by a waste and fee. party
provlslons were not 1ncluded.
In Mass.Ghusetts, HE 5551 15 llkely to be consldered thls fall. Member
company representatlves, worklng closely 1he Assoclated Industrles of
have been engaged 1n dlscusslons Hlth the Admlnlstratlon, leglslators
and contalns no addltlonal liability language.
HE 4715 has passed the House and 1: 1n the Senate pendlng further
actlon. Although the 5:111 requlres further amendments to more closely llnk
1: Superfund, 1: 15 flnanced from general revenues and does not contaln
provlslons.
The New Jersey Splll Fund will llkely be the subject of Significant amendments
15 the of the tax from feedstock to waste and. The New Jersey has

HA2ARPDHS MATERIALS
has contlnued on draftlng consensus "Good Samarltan" language
for use by a coalltlon of trade assoclatlons. concerns center on language
Once consensus language has been achleved, targetlng of states for
Coalltlun actlon can begln 1n earnest. The SASC Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
Task Gruup 15 now worklng closely Hlth Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee members to more
clearly dellneate state transportatlon concerns and develop brleflng materlals
to supp-rt our posltlons.


1

1
5

have actlve 1n negotlatlons other trade assoclatlons and state and local
on pren-tlflcatlon requlrements for hazardous materlals shlpments, Alabama recently j
proposew regulatlons requlrlng two weeks prior notlflcatlon of the shlpment of
waste. Th1: notlflcatlon would be glven to several state agencles and the A
waste faclllty to whlch the waste 15 shipped.
r
AIR AMD WATER QUALITY

The Envlronmental Task Group has been reorganlzed under a new chalrman
and has deslgnated prlorlty lssues 1n the alr and water quallty area 1nclud1ng:
Groundw.ter/safe drlnklng water, water quallty standards (1nclud1ng
state c-ncer Pollcles.
The group 15 worklng the groundwater and water quallty standards
task gr-ups on developlng state lssue posltlons and supportlng materlals.
Major and regulatory actlvlty 1ncludes the Callfornla Alr Resource
1n thls area. Other states Hlth toxlc alr contamlnant leglslatlon 1nclude
500 would extend the 115s of the state TSCA act 1ndefln1tely.
I
15 also worklng on rlsk assessment methodology for use 1n wattrl
quallty standards.
I
CHA
037.50
I
M
REPORT DIRECTOR 0F
RICHARD L. WILSON
The Communlcatlons Department has one prlmary objectlve;
to recognltlon that the chemlcal 1ndustry 15 commltted
to act to protect the publlc from the health and
safety of 1:: products 77 and thereby to develop publlc
support for the 1ndustry's publlc pollcy posltlons.
The
men: 15 an 1ntegral part of the umbrella functlon of advocacy.
CMA'S c-mmunlcatlons actlvltles are 1nstrumental 1n shaplng
publlc and publlc support.
From understandlng
and evolves government controls and lssue*related laws
The dep.rtment 15 1nterlocked and suppori
tlve of every other CMA department and Commlttee through every
step of the publlc pollcy process.
The Communlcatlons Commlttee (made up of the top prof
fesslon.ls 1n the 1ndustry7 monltors department actlvltles and
helps program development.
The program 1ncludes:
7 The CMA twoiyear old advertlslng program produced
measura-le results. as tested by Cambrldge Reports 1n 1:: thlrd
wave pu-llc opinion poll earller thls year.
Almost the
actlve" sample surveyed were aware of the CMA
catlon the magazlnes 1n whlch the ads appeared.
of the gave the 1ndustry better marks (13 percentage
polnts7 for 1:: efforts on waste dlsposal than those who were not.
For the flrst tune Since 1990, the proportlon of polltlcally
actlve who feel the 1ndustry 15 concerned about the
average person's welfare nearly equals those Viewing the
as unconcerned.
The creatlve strategy to demonstrate the chemlcal
commltment through the personal concern of 1nd1v1dual
people by showlng thelr dual role as concerned parent and
worker Will be used for the remalnder of thls calendar year.
These t-n humanilnterest advertlsements appear 1n Time, Newsweek,
Angeles Tlmes and The Washlngton Post.
In two these ads have
generat-d almost a quarter of a million requests for the "key
lssues" booklets and addltlonal 1nformatlon.
Several new creatlve formats
men: beglnnlng Jan. 1, 1933.
for pl.ce*
037951

Sclenc- Advlsory Group will Visit 57 cltles and appear on more
nearly 125. newspaper 1ntervlews.
The 15 coordlnatlng
an more aggresslve medla tour schedule durlng the current
medla "season."
June 1932 and May 1933, medla
tour should V151: approxlmately en prlmary Cities.
News m.terlals dlstrlbutlon 1ncludes speclal newsfeatures and
pieces for prlnt medla; lssue backgrounders; speclal re*
ports Irom news releases; booklets and pamphlets;
and of "The Chemlcal Industry Facts Flle."
The has begun productlon of speclal communlcatlons
mater1.ls on such key lssues as water and hazardous waste.
The
flrst .5 these was a package of materlals on water lssues, dE*
Signed for use or adaptlons by member companles at the local level.
1n thls package were: a model speech and press release;
backgr-unders on water suggested questlons and answers for
medla VldeO £11m Clips.
packages on other
lssues 1nclud1ng hazardous waste dlsposal are planned.
The Sentlon will produce a speclal monthly newsletter to
and on major lssues.
Anothe- newsletter 15 planned for
member- of the press to keep them up to date on lssues.
Radlo 1nclude: THE a serles of threemlnute newsfeatures, dlstrlbuted blweekly to a
posal .nd siting, energy, Clean alr and water lssues, and other
related subjects.
Usage of 1,250 to
1,550 -tatlons encourage an 1ncreased effort 1n the future.
In the televlslon area: nlnetyisecond newsfeatures were
thls spring on Superfund and hazardous waste techno logy,
dlstrlbutlon was done by satelllte followup pla cement
1n e4 markets.
year envlronmental and lssues.
Medla contlnues and Will be expanded by attends nee at
the and Televlslon News Dlrectors Assoclatlon. Natlons 1
Radlo .roadcasters Assoclatlon and Natlonal Farm Broadcaster s
Assoc1.tlon conventlons.
1
1
1
Also. Servlces 15 responslble for coordlnatlng sus talned,
of and development efforts by outslde publlc relatlons counsel.
The medla contact efforts have resulted 1n numerous
1

the commerclal televlslon networks.
and Publlc Broadcastlng System.
Publlc Radlo
Ca 115 from the medla average about 4,200 calls a year,
Th1: gure does not 1nclude telephone and personal contacts
ed by the Sectlon.
laers and executlves on major speaklng platforms 1n major
across the country, such as: the Detrolt Economlcs Club;
the Id Affalrs Councll of Plttsburgh; the Executlve Club of
I
Chlaagn ~
PROJECTS 7 A reglonal communlcatlons program 15
d.
The pr-gram Will be llmlted to one state, will be molded
to state's communlcatlons needs and Will be carrled out by the
of the companles that make up the councll.
Funds the
would be made avaliable by CMA.
are to measure the'effectlveness of the communlcatlons
states could use to attack thelr communlcatlons problems.
As of lune, 1,090,000 key lssue booklets have been prlnted, and
have been dlstrlbuted.
Total prlnted were 1,472,700,
relatlons staff of Celanese Corporatlon, the Chemlcal Sectlon
of the Internatlonal Assoclatlon of Buslness Communlcators and the
County, Greenwlch, Conn., chapter of the Publlc Relatlons
of Amerlca.
has been made the publlc relatlons
AIChE 1n CMA'S communlcatlons effort.
The Du’ont Company's 1ntroductory sesslon for the staff
will b- 1ncluded 1n CMA'S communlcatlons program.
liaison 1n1tlat1ng, developlng and maintaining
mutually beneflclal relatlonshlps between and a Wide Varlety
and Servlel ng throughout the year.
TV radlo taplng facllltles for AWRT 1ntervlews key member

Also. Sactlon partlclpated for the fourth year 1n
Twelv- company executlves gave 295 radlo and TV 1ntervlews
1n
Federatlon of Women's Clubs 77 12,500 v.5. clubs
and 5.0.000 members;
Home Economlcs Assoclatlon 77 55,000 members
hlgh nonsentratlon 1n academia;
who work Hlth 59,000 clubs;
Councll on Consumer Interests 4,300 members.
consumer educators.
Educa-lon t The Catalyst Awards, begun 1n 1957, have honored
of te.chers supportlve of the 1ndustry.
and reglonal awards are glven each year.
wlnners
wlnners
$500, a medal and a certlflcate.
The Industry
Over requests
17a excellent candldates.
h.s now begun 1:: 1993
1n 19.2 about hazardous waste dlsposal, 15 just beglnnlng be
organlzatlons and schools.
companles
order-d an 15 mm. Verslons and 53 Vldeotapes of "The Need to
Also. developed three publlc servlce announcements as
part .5 "The Need to Know" £11m package; "Abandoned Waste Sltes,"
water 1n Amerlca" and "Waste Dlsposal Inclneratlon."
More 7mm of these spots are malled to publlc servlce
for sale to members for hand placement :9 thelr local publlc
Slnc- the beglnnlng of promotlon of the £11m, a total of 559
have been clrculated to 10,431,135 estlmated Viewers.
Th1: year to date, 2,531 booklngs have been scheduled to

1

dlstrlbutlon began 1n 1931.
companles have ordered
277 mm. Verslons and 53 Videotapes of the £11m.
"The Chemlcal Balance" 15 a 12*m1nutE, 35 mm.
of chemlcal 1ndustry contrlbutlons to people, the
natlun and 1:: management of rlsk.
A copy of the sllde show
was to each member company.
7 News strlves to keep 1:: 5,000 readers 1n
memb-r companles 1nformed of Assoclatlon actlvltles.
the 15 golng behlnd the news to explaln the significance
of lssues.
hav- covered the CMA/EPA Five Plant Study, TSCA, the envlronmeni
actlvltles and future plans.
the 1ndustry's efforts to 1mprove the envlronment and the workplace.
1:: 30,000 readers get the other slde of the story that seldom
app-ars 1n the publlc
to keep the press and other 1nterested publlcs aware of CMA' s
and progress.
037955
